This month, Anheuser-Busch InBev hosted a dozen or so reporters at its airy New York office to discuss its advertising plans for the Super Bowl.Company-branded folders labeled “Media Briefing” were distributed. A news release detailed the four beer labels that would be featured in commercials during the game, on Feb. 5, with instructions to keep the information under wraps until the next morning. Also included: a brochure outlining “fun facts” for each brand — Bud Light, Michelob Ultra, Budweiser and Busch — and a business card with a website and email address for “all of your A-B Super Bowl needs.”Absent from the event, which included an hourlong presentation from the company’s United States marketing head: the commercials themselves. Three of the four, the company said, were slated for online release in the lead-up to the big game.The briefing illustrates the effort companies put forth each year to market the most expensive commercial space on TV. The average cost of a 30-second ad for the Super Bowl crept up to $5 million this year, according to ad buyers, from an estimated $4.8 million last year. Brands, eager to get their money’s worth, may spend anywhere from 25 percent of that cost to the same amount on marketing tied to the ads themselves, said Mary Scott, a president at UEG, a sports and entertainment marketing agency.“Even though the spots have incredible viewership — as much as the game itself — you never know,” Ms. Scott said, adding that she recommends clients spend an amount equal to at least 25 percent of the cost on promotions related to their Super Bowl ad. “There’s become more of a game around the game in terms of ensuring that really pays off in a big way.”The willingness of companies to pay record prices for Super Bowl ads while simultaneously spending more to promote them shows how coveted consumer attention has become in the age of smartphones and social media. It can also be a mind-bending thought experiment, given that the ads are attempts to sell consumers on a product or brand.As recently as 2011, it was relatively novel for companies like Volkswagen to share teasers and full versions of their ads before the Super Bowl. Now, the main question for companies seems to be how early to start. More brands are choosing a “drumbeat” approach over one big moment, said Tara Walpert Levy, the vice president of agency and media solutions at YouTube, which has seen more companies prerelease and promote Super Bowl ads over the past few years. (YouTube is celebrating the 10th year of its AdBlitz competition, which encourages viewers to vote for their favorite Super Bowl ads, almost all of which are released and seen widely before the game.)Social media is also far more far more developed as an industry than it was several years ago, making it harder for agencies to maneuver their way into online buzz without buying a spot, as Old Spice did in 2010. The platforms “have caught on and have monetized all the extensions around the Super Bowl,” said Lawrence Teherani-Ami, the media director for North America at the ad agency Wieden & Kennedy.“Whether it’s Twitter, Facebook, Instagram or YouTube, they all have different types of buys you can make,” he said. “The Super Bowl has created a cottage industry for other media companies to take advantage of it as well.”Starting in January, public relations firms and executives at large brands offered the news media previews or exclusive peeks at their commercials, as long as they agreed not to publish the ads or information about them until a specific time — say, Jan. 26 at 6 p.m. for Mercedes-Benz, or Jan. 31 at 8 p.m. for Buick. Often, the ads were just one part of a broader brand campaign, bolstered by celebrities or new products, with executives ready for interviews.Bud Light, for example, announced a new tagline, “Famous Among Friends,” as part of its event this month. Lexus issued a news release about its Super Bowl ad on Jan. 23, which features music from Sia, noting that it would be the brand’s “first official use” of a new global tagline, “Experience Amazing.”The hope is that articles about the ads will drive a flurry of “earned media,” industry parlance for morning show segments, articles, blog posts and social media chatter. Often, companies will supplement that with “paid media,” like promotions on YouTube or Twitter, search keywords or display ads.Buick waited until the game last year to debut its first Super Bowl ad. This year, the company is releasing the ad early, and spending twice as much as it did last year on social media promotions. Buick would share information about the commercial only if outlets agreed to keep it private until the company posted the ad online. In exchange for agreeing to its terms, Buick said it could send over a GIF showing how it planned to use Instagram Stories during the game.Releasing the ad early “gives us a longer time span to engage consumers, and I believe it’s a better return on our investment,” said Molly Peck, Buick’s director of marketing, adding that the company wanted to match the interest it generated last year for being a first-time advertiser. The Super Bowl is still a rare opportunity for companies to reach more than 100 million viewers on a day that “people really want to see the ads, they’re not skipping over them, they’re watching them in real time and engaged,” she said.Susan Credle, the global chief creative officer of FCB, noted that marketers walk a fine line as they balance the demand for “extras” with the ad itself. “There are very few places where we experience things together for the first time, and I think we underestimate the power of that,” she said, referring to the Super Bowl’s huge audience.Roughly 80 national commercial slots were available for purchase this year. The average price of a 30-second in-game Super Bowl ad was $2.4 million in 2007, according to figures from Kantar Media that were not adjusted for inflation. The firm estimated that in-game advertising generated $2.6 billion in sales to networks between 2007 and 2016.“As advertisers more and more look to tell their narrative and tell content stories, this is a tremendous opportunity to do it, but like any story, you can’t just tell it once,” said Randy Freer, the chief operating officer of Fox Networks Group. “You have to get out and spread it around and elevate that.”Snickers is aiming to do that this year with the Super Bowl’s first live commercial, which will star Adam Driver from the HBO series “Girls.” The concept, which its public relations firm was pitching to news outlets as far back as December, will be accompanied by a 36-hour live stream, highlights posted to Facebook and behind-the-scenes footage from two social influencers. The extra effort will cost “several” hundred thousand dollars, the company said.“It’s more and more difficult for people to talk about the ad and see our ad and get noticed, so that’s why we are taking an approach that is more about creating a platform.” said Berta De Pablos-Barbier, vice president of marketing for Mars Chocolate. “Television advertising continues to be an important part, but on its own it’s not enough anymore.”
My wife and I are spending a fortune to send our son to an Ivy League college. Over the holidays, he came home and told us that he loves his agricultural science class and wants to volunteer at a sustainable farm over the summer. Excuse me, but I am not paying $60,000 a year (after taxes) for him to become a farmer. My wife tells me to relax; his interests will probably change. He is only a freshman. But what if they don’t? How should I handle this?ANONYMOUSI love Burt Bacharach and Hal David. (What right-thinking child of the ’70s doesn’t?) But I have a bone to pick with some lyrics in “What the World Needs Now Is Love,” namely: “Lord, we don’t need another meadow. There are cornfields and wheat fields enough to grow.” Not true! If your son wants to be part of the revolution in sustainable farming and end world hunger, more power to him. (Or your wife may be right: He could trade in his overalls by Labor Day. He’s just starting out. What better time to explore?)Still, you have a point. He who pays the piper calls the tune, as the proverb goes. But did you tell your son, before school began, that it was Goldman Sachs or bust? Probably not. (I also suspect that your parameters for acceptable study are broader than that.) You and your wife should discuss the education you are willing to underwrite and share the news with your son. He may accept your decision on his behalf. But here’s hoping he won’t. There are surely less controlling ways to teach him the consequences of his professional choices.After school drop-off, I take my dog on a walk past my son’s elementary school. With its new public address system, you can hear announcements outside the building, too. I find it charming to hear students offering weather forecasts and birthday greetings to classmates. But as a patriotic American, I find myself in a quandary when the students recite the Pledge of Allegiance. Should we stop for a moment, out of respect, or keep walking?SHARON, SCARSDALE, N.Y.The answer to your question is simple, but your “patriotic American” language touched a nerve. So, buckle in for a short detour. Patriotism has little to do with flag-waving or fetishizing the national anthem. (It has even less to do with flag-shaped lapel pins.) Real patriotism involves personal sacrifice: paying taxes rather than finding loopholes; investing real time and energy to make our communities better for everyone; and loving America, even when our countrymen and -women do things we disagree with.Frankly, I know relatively few “patriotic Americans” — though dudes with flag pins abound. Most of us claim we’re too busy to get involved. But I aim to do better this year. And in case any of you are not truly patriotic either, I hope you will join me.Now that that’s off my chest, back to national symbols. Unless it is Beyoncé singing, you probably don’t jump to your feet for the national anthem when watching televised football games, correct? Nor do you stop running if your jog takes you past the anthem-singing portion of a Little League game. Same here: No need to put your hand over your heart for overheard Pledges of Allegiance. (Or join in serenading Janie W. on the glorious occasion of her ninth birthday.) You are not part of the actual audience.My girlfriend and I have a loving and supportive relationship. I thought it was great, until I met her mom. She and my girlfriend are more intense together in every way than we are: fighting harder, laughing louder and irresistible to each other. Is this a bad sign for our relationship? Should I talk to my girlfriend about it?JASON, BOSTONEight words for you, Jason: “Bright Lights: Starring Carrie Fisher and Debbie Reynolds,” on HBO. Find it, watch it, learn from it. Many of us with tempestuous relationships with a parent spend years, mostly disastrously, trying to replicate those five-alarm fires. Later (often after therapy), we realize that over the long haul, quieter relationships can be more fulfilling than fireworks. My hunch is that your girlfriend is already onto this. But no harm in asking, “Honey, do you ever wish that we were as intense as you and your mom are?”I started dating my significant other a year ago. We broke up for a few months, then got back together again recently. His birthday was during our time apart; mine is coming up. I would feel bad about receiving a birthday gift from him, without giving him one. Should I give him a gift retroactively?ANONYMOUSNo. Focus your energy on learning to accept a gift gracefully (by savoring the loving spark that prompted it and thanking your guy sincerely). Avoid creating profit-and-loss statements that catalog gifts given versus those received. That is the road to tit-for-tat-ville and makes us small in the face of kind gestures.
The remarkable recovery of a woman with advanced colon cancer, after treatment with cells from her own immune system, may lead to new options for thousands of other patients with colon or pancreatic cancer, researchers are reporting.Her treatment was the first to successfully target a common cancer mutation that scientists have tried to attack for decades. Until now, that mutation has been bulletproof, so resistant to every attempt at treatment that scientists have described it as “undruggable.”An article about the case, from a team led by Dr. Steven A. Rosenberg, chief of surgery at the National Cancer Institute, was published on Wednesday in The New England Journal of Medicine.The patient, Celine Ryan, 50, an engineer, database programmer and the mother of five, has an unusual genetic makeup that allowed the treatment to work. She is now cancer-free, though not considered cured.The treatment was a form of immunotherapy, which enlists a patient’s immune system to fight disease. The field is revolutionizing cancer treatment.An experiment on one patient cannot determine whether a treatment will be effective in others, but doctors said the results had the potential to help more people.“It has huge implications,” Dr. Carl H. June, from the University of Pennsylvania, said in an interview. He was not part of the study, but wrote an editorial accompanying it in the journal.Dr. June said the research was the first successful targeting of a defect in a gene called KRAS, and is important because mutations in the gene are so common. “Every single pancreatic cancer patient has KRAS,” Dr. June said, adding that the pharmaceutical industry has spent billions trying unsuccessfully to target KRAS.Still, he said, the big question is whether this case is “one in a million, or something that can be replicated and built upon?”About 53,000 cases of pancreatic cancer are expected in the United States this year, and nearly 42,000 deaths. It is one of the deadliest cancers; fewer than 10 percent of patients survive five years. Worldwide, it killed about 330,000 people in 2012, the most recent year with global statistics available.From 30 to 50 percent of colorectal cancers have KRAS mutations, too, and about 13 percent have the same mutation that Ms. Ryan has. In the United States, about 95,000 cases of colon cancer and 39,000 cases of rectal cancer are expected in 2016, and 49,000 deaths from the two forms combined. Globally, there were 1.4 million cases and 694,000 deaths in 2012.The new discovery might not have been made — at least, not now — without Ms. Ryan’s persistence. Researchers twice denied her request to enter the clinical trial, saying her tumors were not large enough, she said. But she refused to give up and was finally let in.The research involves cancer-fighting immune cells called tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, or TILs. These are white blood cells that swarm around tumors, a sign that the immune system is trying to attack the cancer. Dr. Rosenberg has been studying TILs for decades, with the goal of enhancing their ability to fight the disease and using them as a treatment.An attempt to treat another patient with tumors much like Ms. Ryan’s did not work, almost certainly because the researchers could not produce enough highly targeted TILs, Dr. Rosenberg said.So far, the cells have worked best against advanced melanoma, a deadly form of skin cancer. By extracting TILs from tumors, multiplying them in the lab and then returning them to the patient, Dr. Rosenberg’s team has produced long remissions in 20 to 25 percent of patients with that disease.More recently, the team has focused on an even tougher problem: tumors in the digestive system, including the colon and pancreas, and in ovaries, breasts and other organs, which cause more than 80 percent of the 596,000 cancer deaths in the United States each year.The researchers analyze tumors for mutations — genetic flaws that set the cancer cells apart from normal ones. They also study TILs, looking for immune cells that can recognize mutations and therefore attack cancerous cells but leave healthy ones alone.Ms. Ryan, from Rochester Hills, Mich., had colon cancer that spread to her lungs despite surgery, chemotherapy and radiation. With few options, she began looking into research programs and came across the TILs research at the National Cancer Institute. In December 2014, she called the institute, hoping to join the study.But she was told, based on her scans and records, that she did not have a tumor big enough to yield TILs. A research nurse suggested she send her next set of scans; maybe, in the interim, the tumors would grow. Ms. Ryan took that advice — and was devastated to be turned down again.“I felt sure I’d get in,” Ms. Ryan said. “My heart sank.”The rejection left her sobbing. But then she and her husband pulled up images of her scans on their home computer, took screen shots and measurements of a lung tumor that seemed to match the study criteria, and sent them to the cancer institute. She included a polite note asking that, if her tumor was not eligible, she be told why.“I was trying not to sound like a desperate maniac, but I was a desperate maniac,” she said.In March 2015, she got in. Whether the screen shots were a deciding factor is not clear. Dr. Rosenberg said the team had been watching her progress and brought her in as soon as they identified operable tumors.A month later, the researchers performed surgery, removing several lung tumors to search for TILs.Ms. Ryan’s tissue turned out to be a medical gold mine. She had a KRAS mutation and her TILs included killer T-cells that locked onto the mutation like guided missiles.Her T-cells were able to recognize the mutation because she has an uncommon tissue type, which is a genetically determined trait. As a result, she carries a certain protein on the surface of her cells that plays an essential role in displaying the KRAS mutation so that cancer-killing cells can find it and attack.Best of all, from a scientific standpoint, was that Ms. Ryan’s KRAS mutation is shared by many other patients with colon and pancreatic cancers. Those who share her tissue type may also be good candidates for treatment with TILs.Researchers say they now have a blueprint that may enable them to develop cell treatments for other patients as well. The killer T-cells have surface molecules called receptors that lock onto mutated cells, and it may be possible to genetically engineer patients’ T-cells to give them those receptors and their cancer-targeting ability.To treat Ms. Ryan, the team selected a culture of TILs with high levels of immune cells that specifically attacked her mutation. They multiplied those cells in the laboratory to produce huge numbers.Ms. Ryan was first given chemotherapy to wipe out most of her white blood cells and allow the TILs to flourish. Then, more than 100 billion TILs were dripped into her bloodstream through an intravenous line; it took about 20 minutes, she said. About 75 percent were the killer T-cells that targeted her mutation. She was also given interleukin-2, a substance that stimulates killer T-cells.Before being treated, Ms. Ryan had seven tumors in her lungs. Over the next nine months, six shrank and then disappeared. The seventh shrank at first, but then progressed. To remove it, surgeons took out the lower lobe of her left lung.Tests of the excised tumor explained why it had resisted treatment: It had mutated and no longer carried the tissue-type marker that had enabled the T-cells to attack it.The tumor’s ability to escape the T-cells reveals a potential weak spot in the approach of targeting a single mutation, said Dr. Drew M. Pardoll, the director of the Bloomberg-Kimmel Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. Calling cancer “versatile,” he said, “The tumor always seems to come up with a workaround.”Even so, he said the research was “a real and solid step forward.”Today, Ms. Ryan has no signs of cancer.“I feel great,” she said.But recently, two friends died of colon cancer, she said, adding, “I so hope they can get this treatment to everybody who needs it, and that it works.”

Our foreign correspondents wrote about dozens of captivating people and places in 2016, from pirates in the Amazon to tourists in the nomad lands of Tibet to transgender goddesses in India. We hope their journals and dispatches — conversational and visual on-the-ground reports — gave you a welcome break from the news.Here are some of the year’s highlights.By Ellen BarryA sprawling gray market has taken shape around Delhi’s vast unmet need for shelter, with private operators controlling who sleeps where and for how long.By Andrew E. Kramer and Alisa SopovaA new pizzeria in Kiev hires only veterans of the war in eastern Ukraine as cooks, and offers free pies to veterans and hope in a place that has not had much lately.By Norimitsu OnishiResidents of the vibrant and historic Bo-Kaap neighborhood in Cape Town fear that their traditions and close-knit community are at risk as money pours in.By Jim YardleyInGalera, a restaurant that opened recently to rave reviews, is inside the Bollate Penitentiary on the outskirts of Milan.By Declan WalshAs conflict rages elsewhere in Libya, a precarious order holds in the capital, as heavily armed militias and politicians, nominally allied, vie for control.By Gaia PianigianiEfforts in the Italian region of Chianti to reduce an exploding population of wild boars and deer, which devour grapes and the vines’ tender sprouts, are creating issues of their own.By Dan LevinMany wealthy Chinese are moving their families and riches to Western cities like Vancouver, British Columbia, where their children show off cars and diamond-encrusted watches.By Edward WongA pristine valley in Yunnan Province, home to the ethnic Dulong people, is seeing progress in the name of alleviating poverty and drawing tourists.By Declan WalshResidents of Damascus, spared the worst of the violence of Syria’s war, respond to a seemingly interminable conflict with skepticism and dark humor.By Tim ArangoLong before it became a haven for jihadists, the city of Falluja was known as the home of the Haji Hussein restaurant, where locals, soldiers, tourists and businessmen all ate.By Azam AhmedWhile their numbers may be growing, organists worry that a younger generation does not share the desire to preserve their culture and fails to appreciate the craft.By Jeffrey GettlemanDrought conditions, metropolitan sprawl and shrinking pastureland have driven some herders to graze their flocks in Nairobi, the country’s capital.By Anne BarnardVideo and photographs taken by a Times reporter show both scenes of destruction and a seemingly normal city: people just continuing on with their daily lives.By Diaa HadidOur correspondent returned to the Egyptian city last fall to find a place as full of despair as her mother’s of the 1960s was full of hope and anticipation.By Elisabetta PovoledoTheir basilica in ruins, monks from America believe their small brewing operation can help an entire town to recover from Italy’s worst earthquake since 1980.
Two men were accused on Friday of bilking millions of dollars from investors with a Ponzi scheme built on a false promise to buy and resell tickets to high-profile events like the Broadway musical “Hamilton,” the federal authorities said.The Securities and Exchange Commission, in a complaint filed in Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York, said the men, Joseph Meli and Matthew Harriton, had raised about $81 million from at least 125 investors in 13 states who were told their money was being pooled to buy large blocks of tickets to be resold for a profit.Instead, the complaint says, Mr. Meli and Mr. Harriton used about $51 million of the money raised to repay investors, “perpetuating the illusion of a profitable, ongoing investment.”Mr. Meli, 42, and Mr. Harriton, 52, also used the scheme to enrich themselves, the S.E.C. said in a news release, spending almost $2 million on personal expenses, including jewelry, private school and camp tuition and casino payments.In written contracts, the two men, both of New York, typically promised investors they would see a 10 percent annual return on their investments, along with half of some of the proceeds after expenses, the complaint says.Mr. Meli falsely told some investors he had an agreement with the producer of “Hamilton” to buy large blocks of tickets to the show that would then be resold, the complaint says. No such agreement existed, the authorities said.The two men “raised millions from investors by promising big profits from reselling tickets to A-list events when in reality they were moving investor money in a circle and creating a mirage of profitability,” said Paul G. Levenson, director of the S.E.C.’s Boston office.In a parallel criminal case, Mr. Meli was also arrested, with Steven Simmons, 48, of Wilton, Conn., on federal securities and wire fraud charges bought by federal prosecutors in Manhattan.Mr. Meli and Mr. Simmons are accused in the criminal case of running a similar scheme that defrauded investors putting money into what they thought was a hedge fund. The investments were instead used to repay earlier investors, the authorities said.In the criminal case, the authorities said that in one instance, an investment made by an individual — who was told about a successful group of portfolio managers who would manage his money — was wired to an earlier investor “within minutes” of being received.“While soliciting funds from investors for legitimate-sounding investments, Steven Simmons and Joseph Meli were in fact running Ponzi schemes,” said Joon H. Kim, deputy United States attorney for the Southern District of New York.Mr. Meli, Mr. Kim added, “allegedly made up out of whole cloth purported deals to buy Broadway tickets that he could later sell at a profit.” Instead, Mr. Kim said, Mr. Meli “was just robbing Peter to pay Paul.”A lawyer for Mr. Meli, Michael Bowen, said his client was in the ticket-brokering business but that “the complaints filed by the federal government are not true.”A lawyer for Mr. Simmons, Florian Miedel, declined to comment. It was not immediately clear whether Mr. Harriton had a lawyer.“Hamilton,” which won the Tony Award for best new musical in 2016, has set records for most money grossed in a week by a Broadway show and highest-priced tickets, and seats have been notoriously hard to get. The demand has created a robust resale market, with tickets regularly listed in the thousands of dollars.
HALLANDALE BEACH, Fla. — Last January, an email that landed in Dan Schafer’s inbox caught his attention. It came from a horse racing industry newsletter, and it mentioned an idea for a race that would become the richest in the world, eclipsing the $10 million Dubai World Cup, and would be paid for by people who shelled out $1 million apiece for a spot in the starting gate.Schafer, 33, who owns seven Jet’s Pizza franchises in Michigan and Kentucky but has never owned a racehorse, was sold on the concept, which is as much a poker game as it is a horse race.When the idea became a reality in May, Schafer was among the first to contact the Stronach Group, which will host the 12-horse race — named the $12 million Pegasus World Cup — on Saturday at Gulfstream Park.“Instantly I knew this was an opportunity for a guy like me,” said Schafer, who lives with his wife and three children in Union, Ky. “It came with a hefty price tag, but at the same time knowing what I knew about the industry, I could have very easily gone to a Keeneland sale and invested $500,000 to $600,000 into some yearlings, but I’d have to train them and everything else that goes with it and maybe not even sniff a big race.”Soon, Schafer had a $1 million spot in the Pegasus, and the industry was abuzz over this mystery pizza man. Yet Schafer stayed away from the spotlight and kept the focus on actually finding a horse to run in the race, which features a showdown between California Chrome, the soon-to-be retired Horse of the Year, and Arrogate, who barely bested Chrome in the Breeders’ Cup Classic last fall.After an eight-month search, Schafer agreed to partner with Ron Paolucci and his associates and run Paolucci’s War Story in the race, at odds of 50-1. Before last Saturday, when War Story completed his final major workout for the race, Schafer and Paolucci had never met. Paolucci did not know the name of the pizza franchises Schafer owned.“A million dollars, for me, that’s a lot of money,” Paolucci said of the reasoning that led him to join forces with Schafer. “I’m not Juddmonte Farms. I’m not even Dan Schafer. If he can afford to spend a million dollars without even having a horse, then he gets my vote.”A first-place finish in the Pegasus will net $7 million, second place $1.75 million, third place $1 million and all others will receive $250,000. Participants will also split earnings from sponsorships and wagers on the race, including multirace bets like the pick six.Organizers are hoping to reach $25 million in betting handle on the Pegasus, including multirace wagers. If that much is bet, a shareholder in the race whose horse finishes last could still earn half his $1 million back and retain the right of first refusal for a spot in next year’s event, which organizers hope to grow by adding a turf component to lure international horses and the big money bet overseas.The Pegasus was the brainchild of Frank Stronach, an Austrian and Canadian businessman who owns several North American racetracks, including Gulfstream. Outside Gulfstream looms another Stronach creation, a towering Pegasus that is said to be the second-largest statue in the United States, behind the Statue of Liberty.In Schafer, Stronach sees a man with a dream. In Stronach, Schafer sees a man with a proven track record in business as an auto-parts magnate and a horse racing innovator.Schafer grew up outside Detroit, working for his father, who owned a pizza franchise. At 20, Schafer opened his first pizza restaurant, and after he got married in 2009, he and his wife, Daniela, moved to northern Kentucky to develop that market for his franchises.He originally got hooked on racing by going to the track with his grandfather, and he fell for horses like Cigar and War Emblem. When he had the opportunity to visit Louisville with a marketing club while in high school, he made certain he visited Churchill Downs. In 2003, he went to his first Kentucky Derby.He had always hoped to break into the industry as an owner and mingle with people like the Hall of Fame trainer Bob Baffert. He used names like Derby Dreams for his companies. He did not, however, envision being part of a $12 million race.“The one thing I’ve noticed about everybody in this sport, and I mean everybody, is they all are so passionate about it,” Schafer said. “I’ve been around countless people in my lifetime that are successful in their business, and some of them don’t even have passion for it.’’ But in racing, he said, the “people are just amazing, and the industry has done nothing but embrace me.”Schafer’s wife has been supportive, too.“Honestly, she was more concerned about me going to Keeneland on any given sale day and coming home and telling her that I had bought a couple horses,” Schafer said. “So when I had time to at least tell her what was at stake here, she understood it.”As the Pegasus concept was being fleshed out, the field began to take shape, starting with a commitment from California Chrome’s owners to make it his final race, capping a career in which he won the Kentucky Derby, the Preakness Stakes and the Dubai World Cup while amassing the most career earnings of any thoroughbred in North American history. A win on Saturday would make him the richest thoroughbred ever.That Chrome, at age 6, is even still racing bucks a recent trend in which owners have retired star horses early to capitalize on big paydays in the breeding shed. But Chrome’s pedigree is modest, which could restrict his breeding fees and which made it more enticing to keep him on the track.“One person is responsible for California Chrome staying in training this year, and that’s Sheikh Mohammed, because he had the vision of having a $10 million race in Dubai,” Duncan Taylor, a co-owner of Chrome and the president of Taylor Made Farm, said of the ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum. “When we were making the decision a year ago whether to breed him or to run him, we said, ‘Well he can earn more money if he wins one race than he could breeding at that time, when he might have commanded only $20,000 per foal.’”Now California Chrome, who will soon fetch a $40,000 stud fee, has another shot at a big payday in the Pegasus, where he is the favorite at 6-5 odds. So does his rival Arrogate, who has 7-5 odds but did not even have a spot in the race until after the Breeders’ Cup, when his owner, Juddmonte Farms, negotiated to buy Coolmore’s spot in the starting gate for an undisclosed amount.“Even though we were in the driver’s seat, the negotiations were very interesting because I would sit down with people and we’d kind of scratch our heads a little bit because you didn’t now where to start because it was totally new territory,” Garrett O’Rourke, the manager of Juddmonte, said.With the Pegasus now another lucrative racing date on the calendar, at a time of year when the sports world is usually at a lull, owners may start to rethink retiring racehorses in their prime.“People have no idea how hard it is to get to these races,” Paolucci said. “You have the sheikhs in Dubai and all these people spending millions and millions and millions of dollars every year and not getting there. So if you do have a horse that gets you there, why in goodness gracious would you want to retire him?”Keeping stars on the racetrack appeals to Schafer, the fan. After the Pegasus, he said, he would “absolutely” like to retain his share in next year’s race and would look to join a racing syndicate.On Saturday, however, he will be at the top of the sport, hoping for a $7 million payday.“I’ve been very confident throughout this whole process, and I really haven’t felt too many nerves about it yet, maybe because I’m a little naïve and I’ve never been involved in a big race,” he said. “I don’t know what that feeling’s going to be or what’s going to come over me Saturday, but I’ve just really been enjoying this and embracing it for what it is. If I were to win, that would just be a bonus.”
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. — Back in his days as a test pilot at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio, Gus Grissom had a message for his wife, Betty.“If I die, have a party,” he said.Betty Grissom never did have that party. But on Friday, as for the past 25 years, there was a solemn observance at the little-known memorial for her husband and two crewmates who were killed in the Apollo 1 disaster. Mr. Grissom, Roger Chaffee and Ed White died in a flash fire that engulfed their capsule atop a Saturn 1B rocket during a routine training mission on Jan. 27, 1967. Mr. Grissom was 40.Ms. Grissom, 89, was at the memorial again on Friday, wearing a denim jacket with a large Apollo 1 patch in patriotic colors. She joined old friends, family members, and NASA officials and veterans, among them Charlie Duke, who took part in the Apollo 16 moon landing. With the recent deaths of the astronauts John Glenn and Eugene A. Cernan and the sea changes in Washington, the gathering felt like a memorial for an era as well as for three men.At the ceremony, candles were lit for the dead astronauts by members of their families, including Cody Grissom, 22, a pilot, who is completing his last year at his grandfather’s alma mater, Purdue University. Representatives from the Navy, the Air Force and NASA spoke, and a Navy bugler performed taps after the sun went down.“It is important that Challenger and Columbia are remembered, and that Apollo 1 is remembered,” said the Kennedy Space Center director, Robert D. Cabana. “And that we take those steps that create an environment where everyone has a voice, that we really work to ensure the success and the safety of the crew as we continue to explore and move beyond our planet.”Ms. Grissom said this year’s ceremony was probably her last. It coincided with a NASA tribute exhibit about Apollo 1 at the Kennedy Space Center, which she, like many, thought was long overdue. “I thought this is probably a good time to call it quits with them finally getting a memorial of some kind,” she said.This year’s event drew around 150 people, one of the largest crowds ever for a memorial that few people knew of unless they were related to an astronaut or were a die-hard space fan. “We need heroes today, and these were heroes,” said one such fan, Robert Pearlman, an American space historian.People from all over the world traveled to the memorial, among them Masato Maruyama, 65, who has come for the past 10 years from Tokyo. He brought a big bottle of sake to share with the family and friends.Mr. Maruyama said Mr. Grissom reminded him of his father, who was in the Japanese Navy. He remembers just where he was when the fire occurred. “It’s not the distance — it’s in here,” he said, pointing to his heart. “I’m just one of hundreds of thousands. Apollo counted a lot not just for Americans, but human beings.”Although the launch platform is crumbling like a concrete Greek ruin, and stenciled with an eerie “Abandon in Place,” the site was decorated with three red-white-and-blue floral wreaths brought by the Grissom family. A bagpiper stood ready and Ms. Grissom sat front and center. She was treated as the event’s grande dame as people lined up to speak with her.“I want you to know it is such an honor,” said Shirley Brown, whose shop provided the wreaths. “The first time you walked in my shop and said, ‘I’m Betty Grissom,’ I thought Queen Elizabeth had walked in. You never went down, you fought all the way.”“I never quit,” Ms. Grissom agreed, in the kind of taciturn response her astronaut husband might have offered.Many years after the accident, two space buffs, Bob Castro and Mark Pinchell, started going out to the site of the fire, which is on Air Force property, in their own private tribute. One year, they bumped into each other, and came up with the idea of doing something bigger.“Just two space geeks who were going to Pad 34 and doing their own separate ceremonies,” said Mark Grissom, 63, who was 13 when his father died. “They met at the pad and decided to invite the families.”The Grissoms were the first astronaut family to become involved. Early on, car headlights provided the only illumination. While other astronauts and families have been absent over the years, this year Roger Chaffee’s wife, Martha, and her daughter, Sheryl, attended, along with Ed White’s daughter Bonnie.“This is the families’ memorial,” said Sonny Witt, the 45th Space Wing director of operations for Division 1 at Patrick Air Force Base, who helps provide the access. “Not the Air Force and not NASA. They are the ones that lost the husbands and brothers and fathers. Mistakes were made, and they paid the price.”When the three Apollo 1 astronauts were trapped in their burning capsule on Pad 34, a cry for help, believed to be from Mr. Chaffee, a rookie astronaut, came over the communications system: “Hey, we’re burning up.” Mr. White tried opening the hatch, but caught within the highly combustible pure oxygen atmosphere, the crew suffocated.“I don’t want any of this forgotten,” Ms. Grissom said. “Gus Grissom was a human being.”Mr. Grissom, often seen as an underdog, was a favorite astronaut of many Americans. He infamously “screwed the pooch” — as Tom Wolfe put it in “The Right Stuff” — when the hatch blew on his Mercury capsule, causing it to sink it in the Atlantic upon splashdown. Mr. Grissom was initially blamed, and the sunken capsule cost the astronaut couple a visit to the Kennedy White House. In the end, he was cleared of responsibility.Ms. Grissom, who lives in Houston by herself, and Mr. Grissom were high school sweethearts in Mitchell, Ind. Her life always revolved around him. She worked as a late-night telephone operator for Indiana Bell, putting her husband through college at Purdue, where he studied mechanical engineering on the G.I. Bill. He was selected as an astronaut after flying an F-86 Sabre on over a hundred combat missions in Korea.Death was always on the horizon for the wives. The program lost seven astronauts on the path to the moon, largely as a result of crashes of the T-38, the supersonic jet trainer airplanes the astronauts flew back and forth from where they lived in Houston and Cape Canaveral.When the news of the Apollo 1 accident came to her, delivered by a NASA doctor when she was at a friend’s home for a weekly poker night, Ms. Grissom told her friend that she had “already died 100,000 deaths” living with her husband. Martha Chaffee, the youngest space widow, slept with the flag that hung over her husband’s coffin at Arlington. Pat White killed herself years later, a weekend before she and some of the other wives had a reunion planned, her friends said.The space widows felt rejected after their husbands died, while still living in the closely knit community of astronaut families in the “space burbs” by the Manned Spacecraft Center (later the Johnson Space Center) in Houston, nicknamed “Togethersville” because of its exclusivity.In the late ’60s, Ms. Grissom became a black sheep among the astronaut community. She was the first of the widows to sue NASA’s largest contractor, North American Rockwell, over the construction of the capsule, and she inspired Ms. Chaffee and Ms. White to do the same. Ms. Grissom eventually settled for $350,000.On Friday, as Ms. Grissom was helped off the old launching pad, professional and amateur stargazers pointed out the International Space Station passing in the sky above, along with Venus and a shooting star. Back in the car and about to be driven to a celebratory dinner for friends and family at a hotel in nearby Cocoa Beach, she turned to her son and said, “The stars are out tonight.”Earlier, she spoke of how her husband’s sacrifice helped pave the way for the missions to come like the Apollo 11 moonwalk her husband never got to see. Still, she said, “I’m pretty sure he got to the moon before they did.” She added: “Of course he didn’t make it, but in spirit I think he was already there.”
Cute, cuddly and covered in soft brown fur, otters look like teddy bears that can swim. But travel back six million years to the wetlands of southwestern China, and there roamed an ancient relative to these creatures that was more fearsome than adorable.Known as Siamogale melilutra, this newly discovered extinct otter was about the size of a wolf and had strong-looking jaws. A team of scientists from China and the United States described the new species based on a cranium, a mandible and some teeth they found in a coal mine.“It’s huge, it’s bigger than anything I’ve ever seen in terms of otters,” said Denise Su, the curator and head of paleobotany and paleoecology at the Cleveland Museum of Natural History and an author of the paper that appeared Sunday in The Journal of Systematic Paleontology.Many otters today, like the marine otter or North American river otter, are about the size of a small dog. Some, like the sea otter or giant river otter, can grow to more than 75 pounds. But none are as large as S. melilutra was; the team thinks the otter measured about six feet long from snout to the tip of the tail and weighed about 110 pounds.The key to figuring out how big the extinct otter was came from the fossil of its cantaloupe-size cranium. But when the team found the skull, special steps had to be taken to unlock its secrets.“It was squashed flat like a pancake because of the fossilization process,” Dr. Su said. “But we were lucky because it just sat there.”She said all the pieces were still there, the breaks were clean and the edges fit well with each other, so essentially what they had was a deflated cranium. To “inflate” it, they performed a CT scan on the fossil and then digitally reconstructed it.With their visualization of the head, they could extrapolate how big the body was by comparing its proportions with that of modern otters.The researchers aren’t sure why the otter was so big. But they noticed during their examination that its teeth may have been useful for crushing prey. Xiaoming Wang, curator and head of vertebrate paleontology at the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County and lead author of the study, thinks it may have something to do with the large mollusks that shared its swamp.He speculated that the otter might have mostly preyed on the clams and shellfish, rather than on the large land animals that lived in the area. Being large would have been evolutionarily advantageous for a creature that had to crush through hard shells for food. In the future the team will test how powerful the otter’s jaws were, hoping to figure out whether the beasts were strong enough to break the large shells.

Nadal-Federer, Federer-Nadal.To the delight of tennis fans, the Australian Open final on Sunday will match two of the sport’s eternal greats, 35-year-old Roger Federer and 30-year-old Rafael Nadal (broadcast live at 3:30 a.m. Eastern on ESPN and repeated at 9 a.m. on ESPN2).It is their first meeting in a Grand Slam final in more than five years. The excitement has been amplified by the unexpectedness of the matchup. Both players are coming off long layoffs because of injuries, and they have fallen in the rankings. Nadal is seeded ninth in Melbourne, and Federer 17th.The titans of the sport for more than a decade, Nadal and Federer have met 34 times since 2004 (Nadal leads, 23-11). Eight of those matches came on the highest stage: a Grand Slam final. Here are those matches (Nadal leads, 6-2), soon to increase by one.Nadal, still only 20, was the defending champion and had established himself as the best in the world on clay, winning 59 in a row on the surface. Federer, 24, was the game’s best player, with a 7-0 record in Slam finals, including the previous three. But Nadal had won his last four matches against Federer, and he took this first Slam final matchup, 1-6, 6-1, 6-4, 7-6 (4), after missing the Australian Open with a broken foot.The winner said: “To beat the No. 1 player and doing it after the injury I had, I’d say the emotions were a bit more powerful.”The New York Times said: “It was short on rhythm, short on spectacular rallies and, ultimately, short on suspense.”Nadal was 4-0 against Federer on the year. But back on his favored surface, grass, Federer won his fourth consecutive Wimbledon title, 6-0, 7-6 (5), 6-7 (2), 6-3.The winner said: “It was important for me to win a final against him for a change and beat him for a change. At Wimbledon, I knew it was going to be the place for me to do it the easiest way.”The Times said: Federer was “looking slightly more relieved than overjoyed as he walked, heavy-legged, to the net to share a handshake and a pat on the stomach with the young Spaniard.”Federer again came in having won three consecutive Grand Slam titles. A week before the French Open began, he finally beat Nadal on clay for the first time. But Nadal again foiled him in Paris, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4. Federer had 59 unforced errors to Nadal’s 27.The winner said: “Roger sometimes plays very, very aggressive, especially with the forehand. But anyway, for me, he has the best forehand of the tour, no? But yes, the truth is, he had some mistakes today, more than usual.”The Times said: “Nadal’s forehands found the court’s white lines as if they were magnets, as he repeatedly hit winners. He dripped with sweat, but seemed to be gaining energy, while Federer looked exhausted.”Federer gained a fifth consecutive Wimbledon title, 7-6 (7), 4-6, 7-6 (3), 2-6, 6-2, joining Bjorn Borg as the only players to do that in a century. It was the first five-set Slam major between Federer and Nadal, who between them had now won the last 10 Grand Slam events. (The streak ended at 11 when Novak Djokovic won the Australian Open the next year.)Federer won the match with his serve: He had 24 aces to Nadal’s one.The winner said: “It’s a good rivalry, I think. We’ve been at the top for over 100 weeks together. It is building up to one of, maybe, the great rivalries.”The Times said: “Nadal is moving closer, but he cannot seem to beat Federer off the clay.”Nadal was at his absolute peak in this tournament, not losing a set on the way to a fourth straight title at Roland Garros. His 6-1, 6-3, 6-0 victory was the most lopsided result in a men’s Grand Slam final since 1984, and it was the only final between the rivals to be decided in straight sets.The winner said: “I think I played an almost perfect match, and Roger made more mistakes than usual.”The Times said: “In a final that only rarely resembled anything other than one-way traffic, Nadal was at his suffocating finest.”Nadal had won four straight French Opens, and Federer five straight Wimbledons. The pattern finally ended with this breakthrough victory for Nadal, generally cited as the greatest match between them.Nadal won the first two sets before Federer fought back to win the next two in tiebreakers. The final set went all the way to 9-7; Nadal finally won when Federer hit a short forehand into the net after 4 hours 48 minutes. The final score was 6–4, 6–4, 6–7 (5), 6–7 (8), 9–7. It was the longest singles final in Wimbledon’s 131-year history and finished in near darkness.The winner said: “It’s one of the most powerful feelings I’ve had in my life.”The Times said: “Last year’s emotional tussle immediately took its place among the best Wimbledon finals, but this five-set classic — played on a rainy, gusty day — was better yet.”For the first time, the men met in a Grand Slam final somewhere besides Paris or London. And for the first time, it was Nadal who was seeded first, with Federer second.In another five-setter, Nadal won again, 7-5, 3-6, 7-6 (3), 3-6, 6-2, preventing Federer from equaling Pete Sampras’s record of 14 Grand Slam titles. Federer struggled with his serve, putting only 52 percent of his first serves in play, by far his lowest percentage of the tournament.A devastated Federer broke down in tears during his postmatch interview, saying, “God, it’s killing me.”The winner said (to Federer): “Well, first of all, sorry for today. I really know how you feel right now. It’s really tough. Remember, you’re a great champion. You’re one of the best in history.”The Times said: “The roar heard at Rod Laver Arena when Federer held serve to even the match at two sets apiece was soon replaced by the groans and awkward silences that accompany an anticlimax.”Before 2017, this was the only final in which Nadal and Federer were not seeded Nos. 1 and 2 (Nadal was No. 1, but Federer was No. 3, behind Djokovic). Nadal matched Borg with a sixth French title, 7-5, 7-6 (3), 5-7, 6-1.The winner said: “There is a lot of emotion, but the real satisfaction comes from all the work you do before you get there.”The Times said: “Their rivalry is one of the greatest in tennis history, yet it has been decidedly short on suspense here.”Since that match, Federer has been back to a Grand Slam final four times, winning his seventh Wimbledon in 2012. Nadal has been to eight major finals, with a 4-4 record. Last year was the first since 2002 in which neither appeared in a Grand Slam final. Their rivalry seemed to be waning as Djokovic and Andy Murray took their places at the top of tennis.But here are Federer and Nadal again, improbably, for one more big final.
Bulldozers push around refuse. Machinery rumbles and beeps. Trucks barrel past. All the while, birds call out like flocks of screaming children. Welcome to the Brevard County Central Disposal Facility in Cocoa, Fla. — a birder’s paradise.“I had no idea,” said Joel Reynolds, a retiree, birder and wildlife photographer who learned about the unlikely appeal of this landfill just a few years ago. “I just thought it was a stinky, smelly place.”Popular pit stops for migrating gulls and an easy bite for local birds, the Brevard landfill and other landfills become mess halls for thousands of avian diners, especially in the winter.The Brevard site has become a part of the Space Coast Birding and Wildlife Festival’s annual events. If you’re headed to Florida, the festival kicked off this week and runs to Monday.But there are plenty more opportunities in other places to scurry over piles of sharp objects and maggot-infested mystery mush to catch a glimpse of some of the exotic flying things that are drawn to landfills. If that sounds like fun, consider this your guide to dirty birding.First, call to see if the local landfill allows visitors. If it does, you will probably take a safety class and sign a release. Don’t just show up or sneak in: Some landfills have kicked birding groups out for breaking their rules or disrupting their work.Wear boots, long pants and a hat. You will have to learn to ignore the stench, and bring a change of clothes for those at home who can’t. To spot highfliers, carry a pair of binoculars or a telescope.Expect a lot of birds. In Florida, birders have spotted white ibis, cattle egrets, eagles, herons, wood storks and cranes. But the landfills there are best known for gulls of many species from all over the East Coast. There are fairly significant numbers of lesser black-backed gulls, a European bird that has showed up in the United States in the last few decades. Right now a project is banding and tracking them to find out their origin. “We do not where these birds are coming from despite the fact that there are thousands,” said Michael Brothers, a manager at the Marine Science Center in Ponce Inlet, Fla.Go when the birds go. The best day is garbage day, because some birds know the trucks driving in carry the good stuff for foraging. Their presence, and sometimes rodents, also attracts winged predators like eagles that see landfills as prime hunting ground. “You can see the birds streaming from their evening roost towards the landfill,” Mr. Brothers said. Some even roost at the landfills.If you won’t be in Florida, there are plenty of other landfill birding opportunities. Some favorites are in St. John’s in Newfoundland; Assam, India; near San Diego; and in Brownsville, Tex., known by birders as the only reliable place in the United States to spot the Tamaulipas crow, a Mexican bird with a very limited range.For New Yorkers, the best bet is a landfill in Tullytown, Pa., said Tom Stephenson, a member of the Brooklyn Bird Club and author of a popular Warbler guide. He recommends referring to the Cornell Ornithology Lab’s e-bird database while planning a trip. You can plug in where you want to go and see if the birds that have been spotted there are worth holding back your gag reflex.But if you would rather see restored nature, with a lot less odor, visit a capped landfill. Freshkills Park on Staten Island used to have mountains of trash as high as buildings. It has since been converted into a park with grasslands, wetlands and a totally different ecology from the one it served as an active landfill. The park’s planners hope that birds that are threatened by habitat loss, like short-eared owls, will seek refuge in these restored habitats. Researchers are working to monitor which birds show up there, and tours go on all year.But don’t dismiss active landfills just because they smell rotten.“Some of the best places to see birds are places most humans don’t go,” Mr. Stephenson said.
MANGRAGADI, Nepal — Narayan Tharu, 56, was harvesting sugar cane the day the soldiers took his son away.Twelve years ago, when news first spread that the boy, Tirtha, 17, had been detained on suspicion of being a Maoist, Mr. Tharu was hunched over in a field, where he worked as a bonded laborer. By the time a neighbor reached him in the afternoon, villagers had discovered articles of his son’s clothing flung up in a tree. At dusk, a naked body, dead and buried up to the neck, was found under a bridge.“His head was not buried,” Mr. Tharu said of the episode in this village in western Nepal. “The whole body had been buried, but his head was only covered with leaves, so that people could see who it was.”Last year, Mr. Tharu joined thousands of others in filing a formal grievance with the country’s Truth and Reconciliation Commission, formed in 2015 to investigate war crimes committed during Nepal’s Maoist rebellion, which lasted from 1996 to 2006 and claimed nearly 18,000 lives. Over 58,000 complaints have been collected against members of the army and political parties documenting cases of torture, rape and murder.But with the first phase of the investigations still delayed, and their two-year mandate set to expire next month, many are convinced the commission is nothing more than an elaborate mechanism for sweeping the history under the rug. Reinforcing these suspicions are provisions, in the act creating the commission, that grant amnesty to offenders, withdraw cases from Nepal’s Supreme Court and violate international laws governing the prosecution of war crimes.Though members of the commission expect the government to extend their tenure by at least a year, rights advocates say they expect that legal actions against war criminals will continue to stall and that few prosecutions will materialize. In the years since the war ended, only one verdict has been reached.“It has become clear that no political party, including the Maoists, were ever committed to the idea of delivering on justice and accountability for victims,” said Tejshree Thapa, a researcher with Human Rights Watch, which released a statement this month on the peace process. “There is absolutely no political will.”The beginning of the Maoist movement in Nepal can be traced to 1949, with the formation of the country’s first Communist party. In the 1960s, while Nepal was ruled by an absolute monarchy, young men and women looked increasingly to ideas circulated during the Cultural Revolution in China and the Naxalite movement in India. Communism emerged as the way to uproot the monarchy and achieve total state control through an armed uprising.The movement remained relatively obscure until the 1990s, when a radicalized section of the Maoists began to organize. Guided by Nepal’s current prime minister, Pushpa Kamal Dahal — who goes by his nom de guerre, Prachanda, or “the fierce one” in Nepali — the war officially began in 1996 and ended with a peace deal in 2006.In an interview, Surya Kiran Gurung, the chairman of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, defended the work of his office.Cataloging the challenges his staff has faced over the last two years, Mr. Gurung said there was no law in Nepal that criminalized torture, making prosecution tricky, and a short statute of limitations on reporting sexual violence. And money has always been a hurdle, he said.“What I have been asking from the government is to give us the budget that we need,” Mr. Gurung said, noting that the commission has yet to hire investigators outside Kathmandu, the capital. “I’m here to take up my responsibility. I’m not here for a job.”Aditya Adhikari, the author of a book on the revolution, sympathized with Mr. Gurung. He added that the commission’s work had been hampered by the different agendas of international rights organizations and victims’ groups.“Victims’ groups argue that these human rights actors are excessively focused on the idea of prosecution,” he said. “Just go to a village and ask people what they want, victims what they want. They’ll say jobs, reparations. Very few people will talk about prosecution.”Devi Sunuwar, whose 15-year-old daughter, Maina, was captured by the army in 2004, tortured with the live wire of a water heater and eventually killed, scoffed when asked if the Truth and Reconciliation Commission had been working on behalf of victims. The commission is so underfunded, she said, it can barely afford refreshments at events organized for victims.“All they offer is black tea,” she said tartly.She said Nepal’s political leadership, including the Maoist party, had no interest in settling past grievances. Last year, she and members of a victims’ collective visited Prime Minister Dahal to present a memorandum of demands. The meeting did not go well, she said.“The way he talked to us sent a very negative message,” she said. “He said those who earn in dollars,” the nongovernmental organizations, “they’re provoking victims to speak up. In the villages, they will slowly forget, and only the clever ones in Kathmandu will continue fighting. Eventually, they too will forget.”The prime minister’s office did not respond to multiple requests for an interview.Back in Mangragadi, 300 hundred miles from the capital, Thal Kumari Rana, a farmer who filed a grievance with a second commission formed to investigate cases of disappearance, said she and others had not forgotten.On a recent day, Ms. Rana, who guessed her age at 70, joined dozens of victims in a dirt field for a presentation from a nongovernmental organization supporting the construction of a peace memorial and offering a free counseling session for women affected by the war.Recalling the night over a decade ago when a group of army personnel swarmed around her house, Ms. Rana at first thought a herd of water buffalo had encroached on the family’s crops, and called to her son, who was sleeping outside.“How could I see their faces in the dark?” she asked, adding that like many who had disappeared during the war, her son was suspected of ties to the Maoists. “They took my son, saying, ‘We will return him soon.’ I was hopeful he would come back, but he never returned. They tricked us.”Also at the meeting was Mr. Tharu, the sugar cane harvester, who described the agony of the last decade in similar terms.In the days after his son’s death, Mr. Tharu said, he tried to recover the body for a cremation ceremony, only to discover that it had been transferred to a Maoist military camp that he was not permitted to visit.Months later, he would learn that his son had been buried in an unmarked plot. Years later, when the government promised victims about $4,500 in compensation, Mr. Tharu said, the first installment of the payment, around $900, was pocketed by a district-level government employee.“I visited many banks to investigate where my money went, but there was nothing,” he said. “When the government gave the second amount, the district officer told me, ‘If you don’t stop searching for your lost $900, your $1,800 might also disappear.’”
In a recent T-Mobile ad, a dog is trying to watch a slow-motion video on its cellphone of a soaking wet dog shaking itself. Apparently, the phone-owning dog has exceeded its monthly data limit, preventing the full video from playing. This causes understandable outrage, and a breaking of the fourth wall: The dog turns to us to complain — but, wait! That dog is actually speaking to another dog watching videos on a cellphone and commiserating about the limits of inferior telecommunication plans.An onscreen talking dog is not new — remember the Taco Bell Chihuahua? But I recently discovered an alarmingly expansive history of talking dogs as cinematic stars. Purely by accident, I stumbled across “Bark Ranger,” a seemingly straight-to-streaming 2015 film featuring Jon Lovitz as the voice of the title dog. On paper, this seemed like inadvertent comedy gold. The standard plot — young boy and heroic, smarmy dog confront bad guys — was perfect fodder for children. But if you don’t have kids, spending even five minutes in this world will wreak havoc on your Amazon Prime recommendations.And most of those recommendations are deceptive — as in “Bark Ranger,” there’s way too much plot and not enough talking dogs. The genre’s best offerings are limited, but robust, depending on your standards.THE ‘AIR BUD’ EMPIRE spans 14 films (beginning in 1997). The first five are concerned with a golden retriever’s foray into professional athletics, not conversational English, but the sequels see the dog’s offspring using their words to eventually explore space. (Space seems to be the gold standard for B-movie sequels; see “Leprechaun 4: In Space” or “Dracula 3000.”) And nothing says “we can squeeze seven films out of this premise” like puppies wearing gold chains, calling one another “dawg” and saying “for shizzle.”THE ‘BEVERLY HILLS CHIHUAHUA’ FRANCHISE may have fully legitimized the practice by using Hollywood actors like Drew Barrymore, Edward James Olmos and Andy Garcia as canine voices in the first film, from 2008. The sequel, with less star power, touches on standard human concerns of middle age, like marriage, family and mortgages. By the third one, the premise may have exhausted the studio’s budget and the intended audience’s patience. (The original still has the luster of a cult classic, evidenced by a passionate IMDB thread about the film’s appeal to childless adults.)THE NEW FILM ‘A DOG’S PURPOSE,’ based on the 2010 novel by W. Bruce Cameron (and directed by Lasse Hallstrom of “My Life as a Dog” and “Hachi: A Dog’s Tale”), has a dog asking us the big existential question: “What is the meaning of life?” The plot follows the spirit of a dog that passes into a new dog each time it dies, helping lonely humans find meaning. (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals has called for a boycott of the film after footage was released showing one of the dogs seemingly forced into rushing water.) And the film has stars — Dennis Quaid, Peggy Lipton and John Ortiz play humans whose lives are changed by canine reincarnation, while Josh Gad provides the dog voice.But unlike the instant gratification of “Beverly Hills Chihuahua” or “Air Buddies,” in which dogs talk among themselves and with other animals, the canine narrators in “A Dog’s Purpose” and “Bark Ranger” mostly address the viewer; human characters can’t hear them. There’s even a new ABC series called “Downward Dog,” brought to you by the same people who created that Taco Bell Chihuahua, in which a dog narrates its owner’s life, but only to us. It’s as if the magical realism that gives the power of speech to dogs draws the line at letting people understand them.This seems like an oversight. Is there an unwritten industry rule that says different species cannot communicate onscreen? What would be the harm in allowing a Republican corgi to argue about entitlements or climate change with its Democratic owner? After all, dogs are a global occurrence. In 2014, San Francisco made a dog its mayor for a day — that seems like a concept really worth a 90-minute narrative.Perhaps our hunter-gatherer ancestors, without yet having developed the concept of irony, wondered what was on their dogs’ minds. Could these beasts understand the primitive conversations around the fire? Why was barking their only form of communication? The questions modern humans have now about dogs may be along the same lines, just updated for our times. Do we secretly yearn for beings that eat things out of the trash and drool when excited to be preoccupied with geopolitics, insurance rates or 4G data plans? Do they appreciate our efforts to scoop their digestive output?The transformation of cats into internet traffic juggernauts is based on material that largely allows them to be themselves: aloof, illogical, unimpressed. It’s arguable that cats don’t really give us a thought beyond the next meal or as the being with opposable thumbs who can open the door. This makes them the straight man in our ongoing human comedy. But dogs need us, and it seems like this keeps playing out in our cultural output as an imagined emotional reciprocity. An insistence that they share our values, our sense of humor, our embrace of capitalism. Some ancient cultures deified dogs. Some contemporary cultures eat them. We make them talk.
WASHINGTON — President Trump used Twitter on Friday to give a shout-out to a man whose claim to have proved that millions of people voted fraudulently has been repeatedly debunked.In the Twitter message, the president said he looked forward to the results of a voting analysis promised by Gregg Phillips, who last year claimed to have access to data that proved that three million votes had been cast illegally in the election.Fact-checkers noted that Mr. Phillips had offered no evidence to back up his claims, which were fiercely disputed by state election officials in both parties and by nonpartisan election analysts.Less than a week after the election in November, conspiracy theory websites started reporting that millions of people had voted illegally, with many of the stories pointing to a tweet from Mr. Phillips claiming that he had proved it.The tweet, and stories citing it as proof, appeared on numerous right-wing websites such as Infowars.com under headlines suggesting that the popular vote lead of Hillary Clinton, the Democratic nominee, had been bolstered by millions of illegal votes.In subsequent Twitter messages, Mr. Phillips promised “legal action” and said he was consulting lawyers. He also refused to release to reporters data that he claimed formed the basis for his assertion, saying the media would “spin” the story against him.Several fact-check organizations looked into Mr. Phillips’s claims and concluded that there was no evidence to back them up.Snopes.com, a site that calls itself the “definitive internet reference source for urban legends, folklore, myths, rumors, and misinformation,” labeled the claims by Mr. Phillips and several partisan news sites as “unproven.”“We scoured at least a dozen such articles for evidence to support the claim, but found none,” the site wrote.“Phillips offers no evidence whatsoever to back up the claim that he ‘verified’ more than three million noncitizen votes,” Snopes.com adds. “Nor does he divulge his data sources or methodology, much less explain how it was possible to ‘verify’ three million fraudulent votes within five days of a national election.”Glenn Kessler, the fact-checker at the Washington Post, called the voter fraud assertion “a bogus claim with no documented proof.” Punditfact said in its analysis that “skeptical, independent experts and historical analyses suggest it’s highly suspect. In other words, don’t buy it.”So who is Gregg Phillips? According to his LinkedIn profile page, he is the founder of a company called AutoGov, which he describes as “a big data health care software company focused on eligibility, enrollment and data verification.”He also lists himself as having been the executive director of the Mississippi Republican Party for about 18 months in the mid-1990s and the finance director for the Alabama Republican Party before that.His profile on Twitter says he created a mobile phone app called VoteStand to allow people to easily report instances of what they think is voter fraud. A screenshot on the iTunes app store shows someone using the app to complain that sample ballots were not mailed in the person’s district.Early stories about Mr. Phillips on the conspiracy-theory websites suggested that he was connected to a group called Votefraud.org and its website, ElectionNightGatekeepers.com, which frequently expresses concern about what it calls the “danger of computerized election fraud.”But a prominent note on the site’s front page says it had “never heard of Gregg Phillips” before those stories linked to their site.“We would urge Mr. Gregg Phillips to publish how his group made this determination (and we hope he can!)” the site wrote.Mr. Phillips spoke to CNN’s Chris Cuomo to talk about his work.The president’s Twitter message on Friday was apparently not the first time Mr. Phillips had influenced Mr. Trump’s views about fraudulent voting in the 2016 presidential election.Mr. Trump’s first tweets about illegal voting came in late November, around the same time that Jill Stein, the Green Party candidate for president, sought recounts in several states.Mr. Trump lashed out, saying he would have won the popular vote if it had not been for millions of people who voted illegally.He never mentioned Mr. Phillips at the time, but it seems clear that he was reacting to the stories generated by the original tweet from Mr. Phillips just days after the presidential election — a tweet that made totally unsubstantiated claims.
Over the decades, taste has drained out of supermarket tomatoes.Harry J. Klee, a professor of horticultural sciences at the University of Florida, thinks he can put it back in within a couple of years.In this week’s issue of the journal Science, Dr. Klee and his colleagues describe flavor chemicals that are deficient in most modern varieties of tomatoes. In addition, they have located genes that produce these chemicals, and identified heirloom and wild varieties of tomatoes that possess better versions of these genes.Work has begun to breed a hybrid that restores much of the flavor yet retains the traits — large size, sturdy enough for shipping — that growers need to succeed.“Now we know exactly what needs to be done to make it right,” Dr. Klee said. “We just have to turn the crank.”The researchers are using traditional breeding to create the better tasting tomato, even though genetic engineering would be much quicker. “I don’t want people to not eat a great-tasting tomato because they’re scared of it,” Dr. Klee said.The work has taken years. The researchers meticulously measured the levels of different chemicals in different varieties. They sequenced the full genome of nearly 400 varieties — modern, heirloom, wild. Taste panels weighed in on which varieties were delicious and which were blah.The chemistry of tomato flavor has three primary components: sugars, acids and what are known as volatile chemicals — the flavor compounds that waft into the air carrying the fruit’s aroma.In general, people like sweeter fruit, but that is the hardest aspect to improve, because growers, paid by the pound, prefer larger fruit, and a tomato plant can only produce only so much sugar through photosynthesis. But the interplay of other chemicals, often in trace quantities, is also crucial. Some enhance sweetness. Others add nuance to the flavor.“Think of the tomato flavor as a symphony with lots of notes,” Dr. Klee said. “Over the last 50 years, they’ve removed one instrument at a time.”While any single change did not destroy the flavor, the cumulative effect has been blandness. The researchers identified 26 genes involved in producing flavorful volatiles. Modern tomato varieties had versions of the genes that produced smaller amounts of the volatiles.Because the tomato plants produce small quantities of these volatiles, restoring the good versions of the genes should not greatly affect the other traits that growers demand.For home gardeners, there is already a version available, a cross between the best-tasting heirlooms and a modern variety. In exchange for a donation of $10 or more, Dr. Klee’s laboratory will send a packet of seeds.But maybe it’s too late.In the tasting panels, there were noticeable differences in preferences: between men and women, between foodies and nonfoodies, and, perhaps most interesting, between older people and younger people. He recalled one of the students working in his laboratory picking out the supermarket tomato as her favorite in one of the taste tests.“That bothers me a lot,” Dr. Klee said. “Have we trained a whole generation that doesn’t know what a good tomato is?”
After a traumatic breakup, Julia Scinto, a fashion designer in Manhattan, found herself searching online sites far and wide, looking for any available resource to help her feel better.“I even considered hypnosis,” said Ms. Scinto, who designs women’s wear for Macy’s private label.Instead, she discovered Mend, an app and online community that serves as part personal trainer, part online refuge for the brokenhearted.On the Mend app, users are introduced to an animated avatar of the Mend founder, Ellen Huerta, and her reassuring voice offers guidance on how to move forward, with topics like “detoxing” from your ex; redefining your sense of self — even how to get a better night’s sleep.“It’s this charming and endearing voice of a friend,” Ms. Scinto said. “And there’s a line, ‘We never get tired of hearing about your breakup,’ and those words are like an oasis in the desert.”Geri Dugan, who works as a psychiatric nurse practitioner in Chicago, knows all too well the mixed emotions that come after a love affair ends. After being stunned by a relationship that didn’t work out, she said, she felt like an “emotional basket case.”Ms. Dugan found Mend through Ms. Huerta’s podcast “Love Is Like a Plant.” Now, for more than eight months, she has been applying Mend’s daily regime, which includes monitoring one’s self-care, journaling exercises, a Spotify playlist and a book club on Good Reads. She has also navigated through difficult days with support from Mend’s Facebook group.It “really helped normalize the experience,” Ms. Dugan said, adding, “I’m even recommending it to some of my patients going through things like divorce.”In her Santa Monica, Calif., office, just blocks from the Pacific, Ms. Huerta, 30, with a tumble of dark hair and giant blue eyes, admitted that she had always been drawn to matters of the heart. “Mend started very organically after I went through a breakup,” she said between sips of her hand-blended rooibos tea. “I had a lot of resources at my disposal — I had supportive friends and access to therapy — but I still was having such a hard time moving forward.”Ms. Huerta, identified by the name Elle on Mend, found online sites that offer breakup advice to be disappointing, with generic insights like “It just takes time” or wearisome directives like “Post a photo on social media of yourself with someone new.”She said she set out to build a better digital experience for the newly solo, where users could shake their feeling of helplessness and take action. As a former Google employee, she was familiar with the tech field and took her cues from fitness and brain-health apps. “We are taking those parts of our lives very seriously,” she said. “Yet we weren’t doing that with our love lives, which is at the core of who we are.”Mend started as a newsletter focused on recovering from heartbreak. Now the company is working with Silicon Beach’s highly selective business accelerator MuckerLab (whose portfolio includes tech companies like TaskRabbit and the Black Tux). MuckerLab invested seed money in Mend and assists Ms. Huerta with business development, including product design and marketing. Still less than a year old, the app has been downloaded in more than 100 countries, and many Mend users return for the supportive community, which spills over with tales of solidarity.“One of my personal missions is to erase the shame and taboo of heartbreak as something to just get over,” Ms. Huerta said. One way she addresses that is by drawing on her background in science. (She has a degree in geosciences from Wellesley, and her father is a geophysicist.) She counsels the Mend community that it’s not just emotion that causes a wave of intense feelings, it’s also biology.“It’s different for everyone,” Ms. Huerta said, “but when you go through a separation with someone who you have been intimate with, your body can tell that there’s been a separation. You’re giving off hormones, and they are giving off hormones, over time you become addicted to that source of feel-good hormones.”She pointed to a 2016 study published in the Frontiers in Psychology journal, in which researchers found that romantic love stimulates the same area of the brain as addiction does, with symptoms like euphoria, craving and emotional and physical dependence. Love’s addictionlike qualities, the study states, have developed in humans to encourage procreation and, thus, our very existence.Although much of Ms. Huerta’s advice for Mend users is grounded either in science or in her own romantic mistrials, and she encourages a range of options, like meditation and mood-boosting teas, she firmly believes in the magic and mystery of love, which no data, chart or study can pinpoint. It is that belief that will inform a Mend app update scheduled to roll out in the spring.One sentiment remains: “It’s true what they say,” Ms. Huerta said. “Love really is the drug.”

TAVEUNI ISLAND, Fiji — In Fiji, flowers can take on a spiritual, magical significance. They are strung together as garlands for ceremonies and festivals or worn as an ornament behind the ear on any given day.The South Pacific archipelago is home to about 800 species of plants found nowhere else in the world. But the most special is the tagimoucia, a crimson and white flower that hangs down in clusters like a chain of ruby raindrops. Because of its beauty and rarity, it has attained a kind of celebrity status.“Just to touch it and see it with my own eyes,” said Lina Sena, 41, her sentence trailing off as she held a clipping recently. “See how we are treating it? It is history.”Except for scattered sightings on a neighboring island, the flower grows only on a single mountain ridge on Taveuni, one of the northern islands.The tagimoucia is the unofficial floral emblem of Fiji and has a prime position on the nation’s $50 bill. But to Fijians, its significance stems from several legends of romance and heartbreak.Seeing the flower “was on my bucket list,” said Ravi Kumar, 31, who grew up in Fiji but later moved to Australia.Mr. Kumar spent a recent day on Taveuni, traipsing through the forest before finally sighting the flower atop its woody vine. Taveuni, known as the Garden Island for its rich volcanic soil and farming, is crowned with dense, dark rain forest that is often shrouded in mist.Mr. Kumar said he made the trek because the flower’s legend was “one of the tales you grew up with” in Fiji.Those tales can vary depending on whom you ask. The song “Tagimaucia ga” by Percy Bucknell, a traditional composer, describes how an outsider seized power on Taveuni and made the flower a symbol of his chieftainship. Another tells of a young girl whose tears became tagimoucia flowers when her parents scolded her for not doing her housework.According to Emori Tokalau, a governmental liaison to Taveuni’s clan leaders, only the flower’s custodian can tell the true legend. That is Ratu Viliame Mudu, the chief of Somosomo village on the island’s western side.Mr. Tokalau described the custodianship “as a form of copyright,” giving the holder authority to grant permission for outsiders to visit the flower or use its likeness. He had to get the chief’s approval before using the tagimoucia on his office letterhead, he said.To receive permission, one must arrive at the village with a sevusevu — a gift or offering — often the traditional root drink kava. A small ceremony is performed, with men in sarongs and women in long skirts gathered around.On a visit to the village in November, the chief’s son, Akuila Cavuilati, spoke about the flower’s history. “When I was growing up, it was the legend that my great-grandparents carried and gave to us,” he said.The tagimoucia already existed before the legend, but only as a simple white flower, Mr. Cavuilati said. That changed when a young princess fell in love with a man from another village, a union her parents vetoed. She ran away in despair.Village warriors searching for the princess could hear her crying in the forest (tagimoucia can be translated as “crying tears,” Mr. Cavuilati said). However, all they could see were tagimoucia flowers with a mysterious new addition: the ruby red petals. Those petals are the girl’s tears, Mr. Cavuilati said.As a boy, Mr. Cavuilati often climbed the mountain with his brothers to pick tagimoucia flowers, sometimes sending them into the capital, Suva, for display at festivals. “During that time there were so many flowers,” he said. “Nowadays, it is very hard to find.”Until about 30 years ago, access to the flower came only by foot. But then a cellphone tower went up on the mountain’s peak, along with a service road. Now people can drive the four-mile pass more easily. Mr. Cavuilati said rarely did anyone come to him to hear the legend or receive his blessing for their journey to the flower.The path up the mountain is a four hour-plus hike that starts near Somosomo. Along the way, it was easy to see why the forested mountain was the tagimoucia’s natural protector before the access road was built. The trail is littered with felled trees and craters from giant root systems that were ripped out of the ground by cyclones.After several hours of hiking, the grandson of Somosomo’s chief, Viliame Mudu, spied a small cluster of flowers halfway up a tree. That was the sole sighting of ruby red petals by our group that day.The tagimoucia’s peak flowering season of November and December coincides with school’s end, so the flower is a “hot commodity” for graduation garlands, said Hao-Li Lin, an anthropologist who completed his Ph.D. thesis on conservation in Taveuni.During that period, local hotels bring flowers down for their guests. One morning, Alfred Lewenilovo, 26, headed up the mountain carrying a sugar cane knife and an empty backpack. He said his sister in Suva requested tagimoucia flowers for her 21st birthday garland.The flower’s popularity worries some on Fiji. “People are going there to see it and put it around their necks, then they come down. After two days they throw it into the rubbish bins,” said Marika Tuiwawa, a botanist with the University of the South Pacific.The fragility of the flower’s existence has always been a concern because of the small areas, or microhabitats, where it grows.While the opinion that the flower is now overpicked is widely held, no research has been done to confirm that, said Dick Watling, from NatureFiji-MareqetiViti. The conservation group had investigated the possibility of a Taveuni National Park that would provide more protection to the tagimoucia as well as the forest it inhabits. But its Taveuni office closed in 2014, from a lack of interest and funding.The area where the flower is found is currently a forest reserve, but it is often encroached upon by farmers, Mr. Watling said.“The real issue is that we have this enormous area of almost pristine forest, the last in Fiji,” he said. Unless the government realizes the value of that “it will become increasingly fragmented.”For now, the tagimoucia continues to inspire Fijians. On a ferry that sails from Taveuni to Suva, I held a tagimoucia clipping given to me by the village chief of Tavuki.The flower turned heads. A young boy whispered “tagimoucia” as he walked past. A woman pointed and mouthed the flower’s name before breaking into a smile.And Ms. Sena indulged in a mini photo shoot.“Take another one — a good one,” she said as her daughter repositioned her camera to capture the flower, now perched behind Ms. Sena’s ear.
A number of Republican health care policy proposals that seemed out of favor in the Obama era are now being given new life. One of these involves Medicare, the government health insurance program primarily for older Americans, and is known as premium support.Right now, the federal government subsidizes Medicare premiums — those of the traditional program, as well as private plan alternatives that participate in Medicare Advantage. The subsidies are established so that they grow at the rate of overall per enrollee Medicare spending. No matter what Medicare costs, older Americans can be sure that the government will cover a certain percentage of it. That’s the main thing that panics fiscal conservatives, because that costs the government more each year.Premium support could quiet that fear. Subsidies would be calculated so they don’t grow as quickly, thus protecting the federal government (that is, taxpayers) from runaway spending. There are lots of variants, but there are really two principal ideas.The first is to set the subsidy to a level established by the market, as opposed to one established by the government, as it is now.One way to do that is to tie the subsidy to the average premium of all Medicare plans, including that of traditional Medicare. This is how the Medicare drug program, Part D, already works. For Part D, Medicare collects bids from all plans that reflect their costs of providing the required, minimum level of drug coverage. Then it sets the subsidy at 74.5 percent of the average bid.Beneficiaries pay the difference, which will be higher for more costly plans that may offer more generous benefits, and lower for cheaper plans. The system also includes additional subsidies for low-income beneficiaries.The thinking is that the market drives the subsidy. Because insurance companies want to attract more enrollees, they are motivated to drive their bids downward, driving subsidies downward as well and saving taxpayers money.If this sounds somewhat similar to how the subsidies for the Affordable Care Act marketplace plans work, it’s because it is similar. Obamacare ties the premium subsidy to the second-lowest premium instead of the average. If an enrollee wants a plan with more benefits but at a higher premium, he or she would pay the difference, not the government.But even though the approach is similar to Part D — which was passed by a Republican Congress and signed into law by a Republican president — and the A.C.A. marketplaces — established with only Democratic support — it does not have bipartisan endorsement.That’s just one more example of how congressional actions and attitudes on health care reform are inconsistent. Republicans think subsidies based on bids is an excellent way to reform Medicare, but they don’t laud the Affordable Care Act for adopting the same approach. When it comes to the A.C.A., of course, Democrats supported this mechanism, but they’ve opposed it when it comes to Medicare reform.Obamacare’s creation of the insurance exchanges and subsidies to expand coverage was a move leftward, supported by Democrats and opposed by Republicans. Anything that relies more heavily on private Medicare options would be a move rightward, and it would probably be opposed by Democrats and supported by Republicans. Such is Washington.It’s worth noting that progressives are also concerned that this plan might erode traditional Medicare. It could do that because, for a variety of reasons, private plans are likely to bid lower than traditional Medicare. If people have to pay more for traditional Medicare, relative to private plans, they’re likely to leave it, weakening that arm of the program.The second main idea included in some premium support plans is to further protect the government from rapidly growing expenditures by explicitly capping the growth in subsidies. This could be layered on top of the bidding approach. It would work like this: Plans bid, and the government picks the average or second lowest. Then the government makes sure it doesn’t pay a predetermined amount more than last year — a growth cap.This kind of cap on subsidy growth is an even more contentious issue. As anyone who follows health care spending knows, it has grown significantly faster than inflation for the past several decades. Putting a more restrictive cap on growth will make budget projections look better. The problem is that such action assumes that there are ways we haven’t previously figured out to reduce Medicare spending without reducing benefits, reducing reimbursement or increasing cost-sharing.Progressives fear that, given our inability to control health care spending in other ways, this would most likely wind up transferring more and more of the cost of health care onto older Americans themselves. Many would be unable to afford care. The same problems we’re seeing with underinsurance and cost-related access barriers in the private insurance market could become more prevalent.The entire point of premium support is to rely on the market to innovate and come up with more efficient ways of providing health care and health insurance for it. As such, one cannot say in advance how it would keep costs below a growth cap.Some people deride this as “market magic,” and it’s easy to see where they’re coming from. It’s not crazy, however, to think that care could be better managed to produce good outcomes more efficiently, at least to some extent. This, in fact, is the theory underlying some of the Affordable Care Act’s reforms, like accountable care organizations.But the bottom line is this: With premium support, no one can be certain how things will work out. As we consider any premium support approach, we will need to acknowledge that one of the easiest ways to cut premiums is to shift more health care costs to older Americans.

Q. Has there ever been a scientific study of whether copper bracelets ease arthritis symptoms?A. A controlled, double-blind study in England in 2013 found that copper bracelets and other folk remedies, like magnetic straps, were no more effective against arthritis than a placebo.The study, published online in the journal PLOS One, involved 70 patients with painful rheumatoid arthritis. They were randomly selected to wear four devices in a different order: a magnetic wrist strap, a very weakly magnetic strap, a demagnetized strap and a copper bracelet. Each device was worn for five weeks, with a week in between devices.Pain was assessed by subjective questionnaires as well as by studying physiological signs, like swollen joints and physical function, and medication use. Sixty-five of the subjects provided full data to the researchers.At the end of the trial, the authors concluded: “Wearing a magnetic wrist strap or a copper bracelet did not appear to have any meaningful therapeutic effect, beyond that of a placebo, for alleviating symptoms and combating disease activity in rheumatoid arthritis.”A systematic review in 2012 in the journal Rheumatology assessed English-language studies of a dozen alternative healing approaches used in medical treatment of osteoarthritis, including copper bracelets.The review found no good evidence for recommending any of the treatments, but also insufficient evidence that they were not useful.The overall results were judged inconclusive at best, and only a study of copper bracelets did not report any positive outcomes. question@nytimes.com C. CLAIBORNE RAY
My wife is in the final stages of metastatic cancer, and my son has just been admitted to a drug rehab facility across the country. When I spoke to his counselor about bringing him home to say goodbye, she told me that she thought his leaving the facility now is a bad idea. (I didn’t say: “And letting his mother die without saying goodbye to him is a good idea?”) I don’t want to be difficult with the counselor. But can I bring this up again? And what should I tell my wife, who asks often?JACK, PENNSYLVANIAIf anyone on earth is allowed to be difficult right now, Jack, it is you. I am so sorry for your troubles. And I admire your attempt to manage these tough, competing claims with grace. To the counselor, say: “I respect your opinion that my son should stay on site now. But I worry about the future repercussions of his missing his chance to say goodbye to his mom. Can we revisit this issue with his team?”As it stands, we don’t know enough about the counselor’s reasoning or your son’s condition. You might float the idea of engaging a travel companion for your son, who could see him safely to your wife’s door, then back to the facility again. Or perhaps his physical (or emotional) state is too delicate for travel — or for a traumatic visit with his dying mother. But one thing is certain: Raising this issue again with his treatment team falls squarely in the zone of loving familial behavior. Go for it.As for your wife, tell her you are working on your son’s visit. Share your landmark memories of raising him, regardless of the travel outcome. And encourage her to talk all she wants — of happy times and sad. Your job isn’t to fix problems right now, but to listen and hold your wife’s hand, as she says all the things she needs to say. My thoughts are with you.My boyfriend and I are in our early 20s. We have been together for over two years. We live with our families and have good jobs. Recently, I’ve been spending more time with his family, as it’s closer to work. I’ve noticed that his mother cleans his room, packs his lunch, cooks dinner for him and even schedules his appointments. (He contributes nothing in return.) I am worried about his lack of self-sufficiency, and I simply mentioned that he shouldn’t depend on his mother so much. He got very defensive about their relationship. Was I out of line?DELANEYIf you want to drive a young straight guy bonkers (in my experience), call him a “mama’s boy.” (Again, in my experience: Most of them are.) I suspect they hear it as a knock on their raging masculinity or some creepy Oedipal accusation. But, dude, if your mom is washing your underpants at 24, you have officially failed to launch.I get your worry. If your relationship progresses, you fear that you will inherit this man-child and presumably begin scheduling his teeth cleanings. But that hasn’t happened yet. He isn’t asking you to coddle him, correct? Try engaging him in adult tasks (a load of whites, anyone?) and praise him when he joins you. Avoid speaking with Big Mama; this is between you and your beau. You may advise him that full-time maid service will not be part of your relationship with him. But put yourself in his shoes: Who packs lunch if someone else will do it for us?For years, I worked as a lawyer at a corporate law firm. I didn’t like it, but I didn’t hate it. And I earned lots of money. Last year, I was fired in a reorganization and became certified as a yoga teacher. Since then, I love my work every day. My question is what to say to friends who act like I’m crazy for doing a job where I earn a quarter of what I used to, and ask when I’m going back to being a lawyer?ANONYMOUSIf you are as happy as you say and able to support yourself, we should all be as crazy as you. All around us, people are finding new and unexpected ways to be fulfilled when the ground shifts beneath them (or when they discover their parents’ work clothes don’t fit our modern economy). It turns out there are second (and even third) acts in American lives, F. Scott Fitzgerald. (Speaking of which, watch “Sneaky Pete” on Amazon, featuring the glorious return of Giovanni Ribisi as a slippery con man.)Who cares what your judge-y friends think? The universe gave you a little shove, and you turned it into a beautiful upward-facing dog. (That’s a yoga pose, for the three readers who don’t know.) Still, if you feel obliged to respond, say: “Who knows where I’ll end up? But I’ve never been happier!” What kind of fool would argue with that — other than one who believes, unwisely, that salary is the true marker of happiness?
Times Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times.I was fully prepared for Mark Zuckerberg’s day on the witness stand.Or so I thought.As I walked into a federal court in Dallas last Tuesday, waiting to hear the Facebook founder’s testimony, my pockets were filled with the items typical of a paranoid tech reporter on deadline: a laptop, my iPhone, spare batteries, charging cables, backup charging cables, a digital voice recorder, seven different ink pens and at least four of my favorite notebooks. I would broadcast his words to the world as quickly as I could, or watch my laptop die trying.Here is what I was not prepared for: A stern, six-foot tall retired United States Marshal, built like a brick house and with little time for pleasantries, telling me he’d kick me out of the courthouse if I sent one more tweet about the trial.I should back up a bit.It’s rare that a reporter covers a case whose star witness is the chief executive of a software company used daily by most of the people in the courtroom. This day was even more special, as Mr. Zuckerberg was being forced to defend his company against a $2 billion intellectual property lawsuit claiming theft of virtual reality technology.For my purposes, the case itself was almost an afterthought. I flew the 1,400 miles from my home in San Francisco to Dallas to hear what would come out of Mr. Zuckerberg’s mouth when scrutinized outside of Silicon Valley, under oath, by hostile attorneys, in full view of the public. And what’s more, only a handful of other reporters actually showed up to the trial, likely seeing little of interest coming out of it.It was a tech reporter’s gold mine. Mr. Zuckerberg spent hours detailing his vision of the future, rattling off a ticktock of how some of Facebook’s biggest deals went down — including the unexpected purchase price of Oculus, which disclosed for the first time an extra $1 billion in extended goal agreements — straight from the horse’s mouth. While I typed up notes and worked on a broader story anchored by my colleague, Nick Wingfield, I knew I had to get the juicy details out much faster.So I tweeted. And I tweeted. And, throughout the morning, I tweeted some more. And I didn’t really think much of it because, for one thing, I tweet a lot. And, really, everyone in Silicon Valley is always sharing, tweeting or snapping something, all the time. Whether you think that good or bad, it’s a reality of at least this part of the country, if not far beyond.What I did not know, as a tech reporter, is how tricky it is to actually live a connected life inside a federal courtroom.Federal courts have rather strict rules around electronics and recording devices inside courtrooms, the laws of which go back much further than some of the software and services we use to broadcast news today. In 1994, for instance, a Judicial Conference Report declined a recommendation for expanding the use of cameras in federal civil cases, citing concern for the intimidation of witnesses and jury members.Even as far back as 1960, Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas argued against broadcasting of trials. “It is not dangerous because it is new,” he wrote in a paper published in a law journal at the time. “It is dangerous because of the insidious influences which it puts to work in the administration of justice.” It is often policy for district court judges to determine their own policies around electronics and broadcasting — even with tweets.Typically, in the courtroom of the honorable Judge Ed Kinkeade in the Northern District of Texas, where I found myself sitting last Tuesday, only lawyers and those with special permission were allowed to bring any technology more modern than a pen and pad of paper into the courtroom. For Mr. Zuckerberg’s appearance, Judge Kinkeade made a special allowance and let outside reporters like myself use electronics for the session.Perhaps it was because it was a fairly slow technology news day, or maybe because few Facebook reporters bothered to attend the trial, but my tweets, along with a handful of others in the courtroom, began to take off. Competing websites built entire articles based solely on the information in our tweets. CNBC referenced the information coming out of our Twitter feeds live on television.I knew that if I were to take any photos of Mr. Zuckerberg, I would be kicked out of court immediately — a fact that David Travis, the retired U.S. Marshal and current courtroom security officer I previously mentioned, made clear on Tuesday morning. I didn’t think live-tweeting the courtroom proceedings amounted to much more than me producing a running, up-to-the-minute story of what was going on inside. (In tech land, for instance, live-blogs are commonplace in something as rote as the introduction of a new cellphone, much less the founder of Facebook testifying in a lawsuit.)But after we came back from a lunch break, Mr. Travis made a new announcement: “No live-streaming or live-tweeting the case proceedings.” I stopped, aside from some tweets sent outside of the courtroom when we were on midafternoon breaks.Bright and early the next day, Mr. Travis greeted me — by name — with an even clearer warning: “If I see you tweeting in there today, I will eject you from the courtroom.”Mr. Travis, though stern and not exactly full of smiles, was nothing but polite in delivering his orders, a request of the court after someone had figured out that my tweets had been picked up by local, national and international media. I mulled breaking the rules as an act of First Amendment principle, but I also weighed that against missing out on any further testimony from Mr. Zuckerberg or other high profile witnesses. In the end, I agreed to what the court ordered, and was not kicked out.The trial — and its tribulations — was far from the troubles some of my colleagues deal with in the field. But it reminded me of how thorny issues remain in public speech and broadcasting, even to this day, as technology outpaces courtroom rules and precedent, and lawmakers struggle to define even in broad terms what should and should not be permissible. At best, the rules are fluid and flexible; at worst, they’re ignorant to the demands of the present.While I’m not sounding a “tweet free or die” battle cry, I do hope some more of that flexibility granted in Judge Kinkeade’s court continues, as other tweet-happy members of the press and public attend trials in the future.Officer Travis and I shook hands before I walked out of the courtroom and flew back to San Francisco, the land of tweets and snaps, a landscape much more familiar to me. He was cordial and wished me well, though he still did not smile much.
WASHINGTON — When I was 13 years old, my family fled our home for the United States.We were refugees, even though we came here on visitor visas that we simply outstayed. The country of my birth, Liberia, had just seen a military coup, where enlisted soldiers took over the government, disemboweled the president and launched an orgy of retribution against the old guard. My father was shot. My cousin was executed on the beach by firing squad. My mom was gang-raped by soldiers in the basement of our house after she volunteered to submit to them on the condition that they leave my sisters and me, ages 8 to 16, alone.In the hours after it happened, my sisters and I huddled on the floor in my mom’s bedroom while she sat, silently, on the love seat, like a sentry keeping watch over us. In her lap she held a pistol. Twice that night, the soldiers came back, but each time they left again without entering the house.In the ensuing weeks, my mom worked steadily to get us out of Liberia. First, she went to the American Embassy, to begin the painstaking process of trying to get us a visa to the United States. She knew refugee status or an immigrant visa would take months or years, so she went straight for the easiest one, the tourist visa, thinking that was the quickest way out of the country for us. It still took almost a month to get.After the rape, my mom had moved us to our cousins’ house, where she thought we would be safer than in our isolated home way out in the bush. My dad was still in the hospital recovering from gunshot wounds, but at my cousins’ house there seemed to be safety in numbers. Still, every night, my mom would come into the bedroom where we were all sleeping to check on us — three, four, sometimes five times a night.Finally, we got the visas. But we still had to get exit permits from the new Liberian military government allowing us to leave the country. My mom drained her bank account and bribed everyone she could find. She had a singular mission, it seemed: She was going to get her daughters to safety any way she could. (My father would join us once he was released from the hospital.)It was around midnight on May 16, 1980, when we boarded Pan Am Flight 100 at Robertsfield Airport outside Monrovia. The destination was New York. The plane was a DC-10. The cabin engulfed us in its foreignness; it was like we were already in America, with carpets and air-conditioning and air fresheners.I remember being terrified. I sat across the aisle from my mom, who sat next to my sister. We all kept looking at the open door of the plane, for someone to come and pull us off.Over 30 years later, on Friday, I was at the Pentagon, which I cover for The New York Times, when President Trump came to sign his executive order closing the door on refugees coming into this country. I was on deadline and hurriedly typed out my “feed” for the story, which I was working on with my colleague, The Times’s White House correspondent Michael Shear.I am no longer a refugee, so theoretically I am not affected by the ban. After eight years of living illegally in the United States, I received a green card as part of Ronald Reagan’s amnesty program. Ten years after that, I became an American citizen.This country took me and my family in when we were at one of the lowest points of our lives and returned to me a feeling I had lost: that of being safe. I was so proud when I eventually took the oath of citizenship and posed for photos, waving an American flag, in front of the courthouse where I was sworn in.Liberia, which went through a 15-year civil war after we left, has been slowly picking itself up. It elected a female president — the first African country to do so. The absence of war in the past 14 years has allowed businesses to reopen, roads to be fixed and children to go to school. The country is about to hold another election — a hoped-for peaceful transfer of power. These days, when I go to Liberia, I’m not afraid anymore.On Saturday, when I read reports of the refugees and Muslims from seven countries who were being denied entry into the United States, one passage in particular jumped out at me, in our lead story about the executive order: “In Istanbul, during a stopover on Saturday, passengers reported that security officers had entered a plane after everyone had boarded and ordered a young Iranian woman and her family to leave the aircraft.”That single sentence took me back — to another plane on another tarmac, and another family, more than 37 years ago. To my mom and my sister and myself, as we sat fearfully looking at the door of the plane, praying that no one would come on and take us off.I hadn’t seen my mom cry in the whole month after the coup. Not even the night she was raped. But when the plane’s engines revved and it accelerated down the runway the night we left for the United States, her chest heaved with big racking sobs.Helene Cooper is The Times’s Pentagon correspondent. Her new book, “Madame President: The Extraordinary Journey of Ellen Johnson Sirleaf,” will be published by Simon and Schuster on March 7.
The annual dinner hosted by the White House Correspondents’ Association is often referred to as a “nerd prom,” but it’s really a way for the Washington complex of journalists and power brokers to coat themselves with gaudiness and glamour by mingling for a night with Hollywood celebrities.That coziness has sometimes been criticized, but this year’s dinner, scheduled for April 29, may be even more controversial, if the Trump administration continues to throw grenades — false facts, threats, insults — in the news media’s direction. Samantha Bee’s decision to counterprogram on that night won’t make it any easier. (The New York Times does not attend the event.)How did this bizarre event — mixing the likes last year of Joseph R. Biden Jr., Aretha Franklin and Damian Lewis — ever come to be? The answer is that it seems, like the universe, to be ever expanding. Here, a history.On May 7, 1921, 50 men congregated at the Arlington Hotel in Washington for the first White House Correspondents’ Dinner. Not in attendance: the new president, Warren G. Harding, a former newspaper publisher. But some of his top aides were, including the guest of honor that night, George B. Christian, Mr. Harding’s secretary and close friend.In 1924, the dinner had landed its first sitting president, Calvin Coolidge. Every president has since appeared at least once.Helen Thomas, the pioneering reporter, had forced more than a few doors open on her way to covering the Kennedy White House. But in 1962, the correspondents’ dinner was closed to women. She pressured President Kennedy, who then threatened to boycott the dinner. She got an invite.The ban was lifted.Over the decades, the guest list grew. In 1944, Bob Hope became one of the first performers, telling jokes at the Statler Hotel. Afterward, Richard Wilson, a syndicated columnist, wrote that Mr. Hope would be “another Will Rogers.”In 1953, Mr. Hope said he had met President Dwight D. Eisenhower a decade earlier — “when he was a four-star general and had some power.” (Mr. Eisenhower clapped.) Other performers over the years have included Frank Sinatra, Milton Berle and Jimmy Durante.In 1987, the party that Washington has come to know began to take shape. A writer for The Baltimore Sun, Michael Kelly, invited Fawn Hall, the secretary for Oliver North, the former Marine Corps lieutenant colonel, to the dinner. Ms. Hall, considered glamorous, and Mr. North were integral figures in the Iran-contra affair.This helped spur the tradition of news organizations’ inviting celebrities to the dinner as “dates,” for lack of a better term. And the appeal for A-listers only increased when Vanity Fair, in the early ’90s, started hosting an annual after-party geared toward celebrities. In 1993, C-Span started televising the dinners.Barbra Streisand is the rare star to have witnessed the evolution of the dinner over 50 years. In 1963, she performed at the dinner for Kennedy. She returned 30 years later in 1993 and was spotted discussing gays in the military with the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of staff at the time, Colin L. Powell, according to a report in The Washington Post, at a time when Hollywood stars weren’t the norm. In 2013, Ms. Streisand attended the gala alongside Michael Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York City. By then, top-flight celebrities, including Sofia Vergara and Steven Spielberg, filled the audience.Starting in the ’80s, the headliners would mostly be comedians. Al Franken — a former writer and cast member for “Saturday Night Live,” and today a Democratic United States senator for Minnesota — performed in 1994 and 1996. He is the only keynote speaker to eventually have been elected to Congress. Ray Romano, Jon Stewart, Seth Meyers and Joel McHale have all led the festivities.And sometimes the comedians have caused controversy. In 2006, Stephen Colbert, who was hosting the satirical “The Colbert Report” on Comedy Central, offered biting criticism in his keynote speech of President George W. Bush. Mr. Colbert did his mock-conservative shtick from “The Colbert Report” and teased Mr. Bush, saying, “Guys like us, we’re not some brainiacs on the nerd patrol.” Sitting mere feet away, the president did not seem amused. Mr. Colbert also ribbed the news media: “Over the last five years, you people were so good over tax cuts, W.M.D. intelligence, the effect of global warming. We Americans didn’t want to know, and you had the courtesy not to try to find out.”At last year’s dinner, Larry Wilmore, an African American comedian, invoked a racial epithet to refer to President Obama — part of a heartfelt thank-you to the first black president.In 2011, President Trump was the focus of cutting jokes by President Obama and the host for the evening, Mr. Meyers. Mr. Trump was publicly teasing a run for president — and Mr. Obama mocked his qualifications, his public questioning of Mr. Obama’s birth certificate and his television show, “The Celebrity Apprentice.”Mr. Meyers delivered a set equally as piercing. Mr. Trump barely smiled, and at least outwardly, did not seem to appreciate being the butt of the jokes, although he told The New York Times last year, “I loved that dinner.”There have been suggestions that the dinner may have spurred Mr. Trump to put together a serious campaign for president in 2016. Mr. Trump has denied this.
Housing rights organizations in the New York region are bracing for a new era in the White House, one in which they fear housing equality will be neglected or even rolled back by a president who was sued by the Justice Department for racial discrimination in housing in the 1970s.The private nonprofit organizations responsible for investigating and bringing many of the state’s fair housing cases are concerned there will be not only drastic cuts in federal funding but also changes to federal guidelines, potentially allowing local communities and landlords to discriminate without much consequence.“There were a lot of strides made within H.U.D. during the Obama administration to improve fair housing enforcement,” said Sally Santangelo, the executive director of CNY Fair Housing, which serves Central and Northern New York. “I am concerned that those would be rolled back or defunded.” Her organization will work to prevent those cuts, but, she added, “I want to be realistic about what’s at stake.”In New York City, the nonprofit Fair Housing Justice Center brings the majority of the housing discrimination cases. Officials at the center know that despite its liberal reputation, New York City is the third-most segregated city in the United States, according to an analysis of 2010 census data. While white people make up only a third of the city’s population, the average white person lives in a neighborhood that is more than 60 percent white.It can be time consuming and expensive to pin down discrimination. Organizations like the Justice Center send black and white testers to the same apartment in a short time frame, conducting about 200 tests a year. L. B. Williams, who is black, is a tester for the center. Each time he sets out, he assumes a fake name, a fake wife and a fake income; he records his interactions on a microphone that he hides in his shirt or tie.“I try not to let it get to me,” said Mr. Williams, who has conducted about 100 tests for the center in 10 years. “In a lot of ways it’s still a painful experience when someone treats you that way. They’re saying in so many ways that you’re less-than.”In 2015, there were 27,944 complaints of housing discrimination across the country, according to the National Fair Housing Alliance. But those are only the reported cases. The alliance estimates there are as many as four million instances of discrimination each year; some experts suggest the number is even higher. Discrimination against people with disabilities made up 55 percent of the reported cases; racial discrimination made up about 20 percent. Other forms of discrimination involved religion, national origin, sex and family status, according to the alliance.Housing advocates observe that discriminatory practices aren’t usually unintentional.“I don’t see a lot of implicit bias,” said Fred Freiberg of the Fair Housing Justice Center, referring to the idea that even well-meaning people can hold unconscious prejudices that can affect their behavior. “It’s not ignorance of the law that’s causing this problem, it’s refusal to comply with it.”In some cases, like one settled through the Commission on Human Rights last year, the conduct is blatant. Rashid Owoyele was living in an apartment in Brooklyn when his landlord, who was of Jamaican descent, said she didn’t want black people like him living in the apartment. Certain black people were all right, she said, but not those who were African-American. The exchange was caught on camera; he was eventually awarded a settlement.Fair housing organizations around the state largely depend on federal funding to hire testers like Mr. Williams, prepare lawsuits for tenants like Mr. Owoyele, and educate citizens about their rights.This year, the Fair Housing Justice Center received about 55 percent of its budget from federal grants. For some organizations, that percentage is much higher. Long Island Housing Services, a nonprofit that serves Nassau and Suffolk Counties, said about 90 percent of its fair housing work is funded by the federal government, through the Fair Housing Initiatives Program. CNY in upstate New York receives federal grants for at least 75 percent of its budget. This year, CNY’s funding is guaranteed through November. The largest grant H.U.D. offers lasts for three years; both the Justice Center and CNY are in their third year and will need to reapply in 2017.If a Trump administration were to cut that money, the result would be drastic for these nonprofit organizations. In addition to concerns over funding, housing organizations fear that a Trump administration may not vigorously pursue landlords or communities that are violating the law.Donald J. Trump has a personal history with equal housing enforcement. A state investigation in the late 1960s found that out of 3,700 apartments in Trump Village on Coney Island, black families occupied only seven units. In 1973, in one of the first major cases to be brought under the 1968 Fair Housing Act, a Trump manager testified that employees had been instructed to attach the letter “C” for “Colored” to any applications submitted by black potential renters. Mr. Trump eventually signed a consent decree, but nonetheless declared victory, emphasizing that the decree did not include an admission of guilt.Mr. Trump hasn’t said much about fair housing so far. Ben Carson, his choice for secretary of Housing and Urban Development, has said that regulations — like those that further fair housing — are “what you see in communist countries.” In his  statement for his confirmation hearings, Mr. Carson endorsed the deregulation of housing.Advocates don’t quite know what to expect, but they say this kind of talk is cause for alarm.Already since Congress convened at the beginning of this month, two bills have been introduced to gut fair housing enforcement, Ms. Santangelo said. One of those would dismantle a H.U.D. database that allows communities to examine racial and socioeconomic disparities in their area.To be sure, the relationship between the federal government and fair housing has never been smooth. Housing advocates agree that through Democratic and Republican administrations, housing equality has often been a low priority, repeatedly promised but never aggressively enforced.“Most everybody would like to pretend that there’s not any problem with fair housing anymore: We passed the laws, there’s no segregation anymore, that was my grandfather’s problem, but we fixed it,” said John Logan, a sociology professor at Brown University who has been called as an expert witness in many fair housing cases over the last two decades. He said that the political backlash against integration is so great that many administrations avoid any real action on it.“While some may say, ‘Oh, the sky is falling, because the Trump administration is so terrible,’ my view is that it will be terrible, like all the others,” Mr. Logan said, referring to previous administrations.The Obama administration made some strides, partly by releasing rules in 2015 that clarified how local communities must not only prevent discrimination, but also affirmatively further fair housing, an element of the original Fair Housing Act that has remained largely unfulfilled.Now, with Mr. Trump in the White House, the Fair Housing Justice Center and organizations like it are digging in on what they have always seen as a drawn-out campaign.As Mr. Freiberg of the Fair Housing Justice Center said, “If the new administration feels strongly about law and order, then let’s see our government vigorously enforce fair housing and human rights law.”
After learning she had a high genetic risk for breast cancer, Dane’e McCree, like a growing number of women, decided to have her breasts removed. Her doctor assured her that reconstructive surgery would spare her nipples and leave her with natural-looking breasts.It did. But while Ms. McCree’s rebuilt chest may resemble natural breasts, it is now completely numb. Her nipples lack any feeling. She cannot sense the slightest touch of her breasts, perceive warmth or cold, feel an itch if she has a rash or pain if she bangs into a door.And no one warned her.“I can’t even feel it when my kids hug me,” said Ms. McCree, 31, a store manager in Grand Junction, Colo., who is raising two daughters on her own.Plastic surgeons performed more than 106,000 breast reconstructions in 2015, up 35 percent from 2000. And they have embraced cutting-edge techniques to improve the appearance of reconstructed breasts and give them a more natural “look and feel” — using a woman’s belly fat to create the new breast, sparing the nipple, minimizing scarring with creative incisions and offering enhancements like larger, firmer lifted breasts.Doctors often promise patients that their reconstructed breasts will look even better than the breasts they had before. But they often describe the potential consequences of the surgery in ambiguous terms. Women say the fact that sensation and sexual arousal will not be restored is not made clear.The main problem is using the word “feel,” said Dr. Clara Lee, an associate professor of plastic surgery at Ohio State University who does reconstructive breast surgery. Surgeons who use a woman’s own tissue to recreate a breast might tell the patient that it will “feel” like a natural breast, referring to how it feels to someone else, not the woman.“We don’t always mean what’s important to the patient,” Dr. Lee said.“Our focus has been on what women look like,” said Dr. Andrea L. Pusic, a plastic surgeon at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center who specializes in breast reconstruction and studies patients’ quality of life after breast surgery. “What it feels like to the woman has been a kind of blind spot in breast surgery. That’s the next frontier.”The focus on how breasts look and feel to other people, rather than how they feel to the patient, speaks to the fact that women are still largely judged by their appearance, said Victoria Pitts-Taylor, a professor and the head of feminist, gender and sexuality studies at Wesleyan University.“There’s such a strong cultural gaze at women’s breasts,” Dr. Pitts-Taylor said. “It does raise the question: Who is breast reconstruction for?”Adding to the confusion has been the excitement over surgical innovations, particularly “nipple-sparing” mastectomies. During a traditional mastectomy, doctors remove the nipple and scoop out breast tissue, causing considerable nerve damage. But now, in certain cases, the nipple can be spared, raising hopes that some feeling will be preserved.The actress Angelina Jolie wrote about her nipple-sparing, preventive double mastectomy in a New York Times Op-Ed in 2013, inspiring other women at high risk of breast cancer to have their breasts removed. But the nipple-sparing surgery has yet to fulfill its promise, and in most cases, sensation is not restored.For many women, the loss of sensation in their breasts can be devastating.“No one said, ‘You will not have sexual arousal in your chest again,’” Ms. McCree said. “I thought that because I was able to keep my nipples and the blood supply, I’d keep my feeling.”Eve Wallinga, 60, a cancer survivor from St. Cloud, Minn., said many women who choose risk-reducing mastectomies believe that reconstructive surgery will make them “whole” again and are not told that the sensation lost during the surgery is unlikely to come back.“They go into it thinking everything will be the same when they come out — they’ll just have cancer-proof stuffing in their breasts,” Ms. Wallinga said. “Some are very angry and upset, and say, ‘Why wasn’t I told?’ They feel very betrayed.”The lack of sensation is potentially dangerous. Women who have had mastectomies and reconstruction surgery have sustained severe burns on their breasts from heating pads, hair dryers, curling irons, sunbathing and overly hot showers.Several women interviewed recounted times when they had not realized a bra was cutting into their skin until they saw blood. Many described embarrassing “wardrobe malfunctions,” when a bathing suit or T-shirt shifted to reveal part of their breast without their knowing because they did not feel the air on their exposed skin.A doctor recalled a patient who had burned herself while draining hot pasta for dinner; she did not realize she was hurt until she saw red marks on her skin in the shower several hours later.Some women described losing the sense of the position of their breasts.“It’s not just about the sexual arousal, it’s the awkwardness,” said Cathy Balsamo of Berkeley Heights, N.J. “You can’t figure out your space — almost like you’re bigger than you really are. It’s a bizarre feeling.”She added, “When I put on a sports bra, I have to look in the mirror and focus on the breasts to make sure they’re in the pocket where they belong.”Nerve damage during mastectomies can create post-mastectomy pain syndrome. Some women experience tingling sensations, and others have debilitating pain. Patients say physicians minimize the condition, even though it is fairly common, affecting anywhere from 25 percent to 60 percent of mastectomy patients, according to published studies.Michelle Lamon Romero, 45, of East Longmeadow, Mass., said she had been incapacitated by pain since having a double mastectomy two years ago. She lost her job and now relies on a cocktail of five drugs to keep the pain at a manageable level.“The surface of the skin is numb — if you run a needle over it, I can’t feel it,” Ms. Romero said. “But I can feel the pain underneath just radiating everywhere.”She added that her plastic surgeon had told her that she was an anomaly and that “this isn’t real, it’s all in your head.” Other patients Ms. Romero has met through Facebook have had the same experience.“So many women who join are just relieved to know they’re not alone,” Ms. Romero said. “They all start out the same way: ‘My doctor told me I was crazy.’”Most surgeons agree that the best chance for sensory restoration after a mastectomy is a procedure that uses a woman’s own body tissue rather than an implant because nerves have a better chance of regenerating in natural tissue. The procedure has produced modest results. If sensation returns, it is usually limited to the perception of pressure, without improved sensation related to touch, temperature or sexual arousal.“It’s a shadow of the degree of sensation that people had before,” said Dr. Edwin G. Wilkins, a plastic surgeon at the University of Michigan who is running a large study on reconstruction outcomes and complications with Dr. Pusic. “It’s a poor substitute.”Dr. Aldona J. Spiegel, a plastic surgeon in Houston who has pioneered techniques to reconnect nerves in the breast and restore sensation, said the procedure remained promising.“I tell patients that if I am able to reconnect nerves in the reconstructed breast, it will improve the sensation. But I never tell them it will be normal,” Dr. Spiegel said.She added that many of her patients had shown “very significant improvement.”One of her patients, Karen Holt, 65, a retired principal from Houston, had her left breast removed and reconstructed from her own tissue 14 years ago. Ms. Holt knows she’s unusual, she said, but claims she has “just about as much erogenous sensation in the left breast as in the right.”But doctors say such results are rare.“You don’t want to give people false hope,” said Dr. Frank J. DellaCroce, a plastic surgeon and a founder of the Center for Restorative Breast Surgery in New Orleans.Restoring sensation is “one of those things that’s regarded as the holy grail of breast reconstruction,” he said. “But no one has shown in any scientific article to date that we’re able to return sensation in any reliable way.”Dr. Christine Laronga, a breast oncologist at the Moffitt Cancer Center in Tampa, Fla., said she tried to make clear to patients that feeling would not be restored after reconstruction, telling them, “It may look like a breast, but it won’t feel like a breast.”While doctors agree on the need for a mastectomy procedure that spares nerves, they note that the goal of the surgery is to make sure the cancer is gone. There is also a risk that efforts to restore sensation will trigger a pain syndrome.“It’s a very tricky area,” said Dr. Ida K. Fox, a plastic surgeon at Washington University in St. Louis who specializes in breast and hand surgery. “You don’t want to restore sensation and give someone chronic pain.”Ms. Balsamo, 50, who had a double mastectomy after testing positive for a genetic mutation that increases breast cancer risk, said she did not regret the surgery, but wished she had been better informed.“I just wish I had known,” Ms. Balsamo said. “They said there’s going to be a difference in the sensation — not that there wouldn’t be any. Before you go in, shouldn’t you know the facts?”
CHICAGO — This weary city ended last year with 762 murders, more than anyplace else in America, a grim statistic that alarmed Chicago’s leaders, haunted grieving families and drew the president’s attention. And though the calendar has now turned, the violence of 2016 is claiming still more lives.Thirteen days into the new year, a young mother named Precious Land became Chicago’s 766th murder victim of 2016. Ms. Land was the fourth person in 2017 to die of injuries from violence that happened last year, according to the Chicago police, who have made no arrests in her case.A mother of four with a steady job and no criminal record, Ms. Land was shot in the neck over the Memorial Day weekend while driving on the city’s West Side. When she was injured, Ms. Land was just a block from home, and only a few miles from where her brother was shot to death in 2014.“It’s constantly happening, every single day,” said Stacey Turner, Ms. Land’s mother. “And these people are running around, shooting innocent people, ripping through lives. And there’s so much going on, the police can’t handle everything.”With so many shooting victims in Chicago — nearly 12 a day last year — those who survive are often overlooked. When Ms. Land was injured, the news cameras came and left in a matter of hours, leaving her relatives to grieve in anonymity. But as with so many families here, their pain continued to unfold over many unpredictable, emotionally excruciating and expensive months.Ms. Land’s prognosis was bleak from the start — paralyzed, comatose, almost certain never to speak again, doctors said. Still, Ms. Turner held out hope that some sort of recovery was possible, that God had kept her daughter alive for a reason, that all the family’s prayers and tears would be rewarded.I met Ms. Turner a few weeks after the shooting, and followed her through the summer as she looked after her grandchildren, visited her daughter’s hospital bedside and made plans to care for Ms. Land back at home. When The New York Times published a profile of the family in September, Ms. Land remained in a long-term care facility, and it was unclear whether she would ever make it back home.But not long after, an ambulance pulled in front of Ms. Turner’s house, and Ms. Land, 27, was wheeled inside. Ms. Turner, who once worked as a nursing assistant, started sleeping by Ms. Land’s bedside, monitoring her breathing tubes, administering her food, watching for signs of infection.“I took care of my daughter 24 hours a day — I needed more hours in the day to do that,” Ms. Turner said. “She was doing really good.”When I stopped by just before Thanksgiving, Ms. Land was resting comfortably in a room filled with medical supplies and decorations that Ms. Turner had picked out at Dollar General. The television was on, just in case Ms. Land could hear it. She was wearing sweats instead of a hospital gown. The family was finally together again.The weeks that followed, however, brought new worries. An infection sent Ms. Land back to the hospital in December, her mother said. When one medical problem was almost solved, another would emerge. Days turned to weeks. She never made it back home.On Jan. 13, Ms. Land’s heart stopped. After doctors said they had done all they could, Ms. Turner climbed into the hospital bed with her daughter to say goodbye.Medically speaking, Ms. Land’s death was not a surprise. Legally speaking, it was a homicide caused by complications of a gunshot to the neck. Practically speaking, it was yet another sucker punch from Chicago to a family that has lost half a generation to bullets on the streets.Ms. Turner, who has leaned on donations to support her grandchildren since the shooting, planned a funeral for her daughter at the church where Ms. Land was baptized as a child. She arranged for Ms. Land to be buried two plots from the brother who was murdered before her, spending her life savings to pay for the funeral.On Wednesday morning, as friends shared memories of Ms. Land and as preachers lamented the brutal constancy of Chicago’s violence, Ms. Turner sat in the front row of the sanctuary, barely an arm’s length from her daughter’s white coffin. Through the service, Ms. Turner alternated between wiping tears from her eyes and consoling her grandchildren.As a mist fell from the sky, Ms. Turner followed the hearse to a cemetery just west of the city. A prayer was said, sobbing was heard and roses were placed on the coffin. Then, 242 days after she was shot, Precious Land was lowered into the earth.
Britain has granted posthumous pardons to thousands of gay and bisexual men who were convicted of sexual offenses under laws that have since been abolished, the government said on Tuesday, according to Reuters.The mass pardon, announced in October, became law when it received royal assent.The policy is known as Turing’s Law after the World War II codebreaker Alan Turing, who was chemically castrated after being convicted of gross indecency in 1952 for having sex with a man.“This is a truly momentous day,” said Sam Gyimah, a junior justice minister. “We can never undo the hurt caused, but we have apologized and taken action to right these wrongs.”Lord Sharkey, one of the people who campaigned for the pardons, said some 65,000 men had been convicted under the now-repealed laws, of whom 15,000 were still alive.Under the new law, anyone who was found guilty of consensual homosexual sex has their name cleared, and for those still living, the convictions can be removed from any criminal record checks.Soon after the pardon was announced, The New York Times spoke with George Montague, a World War II veteran, entrepreneur, father, grandfather, Boy Scout leader — and criminal. In 1974, he was convicted of gross indecency under a British law that targeted gay men.Mr. Montague, who called himself “the happiest old gay guy there is,” said he wanted an apology, not a pardon.
HONG KONG — Jack Ma has been in the global headlines lately for meeting with President Trump and for discussing world affairs at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. But for the company he founded, the story is still at home.On Tuesday, Alibaba Group, the Chinese e-commerce giant, posted strong earnings for its third quarter and beat analysts’ estimates. The quarter, which ended in December, is an essential one for the company: Its biggest sales event of the year is in November.Nonetheless, the results showed how Alibaba — despite Mr. Ma’s global profile and its 2014 initial public offering in the United States — is still dependent on China. The results also demonstrate that while Alibaba’s global ambitions have made progress, they haven’t yet become a major driver of its results.Of central concern to investors is the durability of Singles Day, a company-created, shopping-oriented “Hallmark holiday” that falls on Nov. 11 each year. While sales growth from that event has steadily slowed, leading the company to pump up entertainment around it, the holiday nonetheless drove earnings growth. In the quarter ending in December, Alibaba said revenue grew 54 percent, compared with the period a year earlier, to $7.7 billion. Net profit rose 38 percent, to nearly $2.5 billion.At the World Economic Forum in Davos last week, Mr. Ma warned of the dangers of a trade war between the United States and China. With Mr. Trump, he asserted that his company would help create a million jobs in America. (Significantly, details were scant.)His international appearances underscore a tough truth for Chinese internet companies: While they are often held up domestically as beacons of innovation, they have long struggled to build a market abroad. Alibaba has been trying to break that blockage, yet it has mostly focused on recruiting foreign brands to sell on its sites to Chinese consumers. In its third quarter, only 7 percent of its revenue came from commerce outside China.One important way that Alibaba is looking to build its foreign businesses is by offering computing services to companies, much like Amazon does with Amazon Web Services. To that end, Alibaba has built new data centers around the world. Analysts are also bullish on the company’s cloud revenue, which in its third quarter more than doubled, to $254 million.Investors have often looked to Alibaba to see how the broader Chinese economy is doing. Alibaba has repeatedly argued that it should outperform the economy because online buyers have grown more quickly than total consumption. As that customer growth has slowed, Alibaba has worked to make more money from users, especially those using mobile phones. To that end, the company said the jump in revenue came from an increase in how much its online vendors spent per consumer as well as an increase in clicks because of improved targeting to customers.
As February approaches, two major events appear on the calendar of N.B.A. watchers.All-Star weekend will take place in New Orleans from Feb. 17 to 19. And the trade deadline follows on its heels, this year on Feb. 23 at 3 p.m., Eastern time.If you have a strong preference for one of the two events, it is a good indication as to the kind of fan you are.If you’re totally into All-Star weekend — you love dunks and 3-pointers, the talent of established players and the promise of new ones, offense more than defense, and individuals more than teams — you might be called a Celebrator. You’re enthusiastic, impatient and you agree with Adam Silver: The league really needs to speed up the end of games. You prefer the Warriors to the Cavaliers.If you’re more excited about the approaching deadline — the trade machine is your home screen, you have a full tab of your Tweetdeck dedicated to Woj and you know the rosters of each team forward and backward, including the salary and usage rate of each player — you might be called a Calculator. You’re analytic, a little coldblooded and, sure, good defense slows games, but it also wins championships. You prefer the Cavaliers to the Warriors.Celebrators are likely to have a hard time finding something to celebrate in the coming N.B.A. week — as we’ll see shortly. But February, the regular season’s spiritual midpoint, holds something for everybody. After all, even born Calculators can’t resist plays like these.Let’s get into some games.Have a question or a suggestion for this column? Send an email to NBAweek@nytimes.com, or bother me on Twitter: @Jonesieman.Chicago at Oklahoma City, Wednesday, 9:30 p.m., ESPNIt’s calamity week in the N.B.A.Of the 12 nationally televised games available this week (from Monday to Sunday), most involve teams in some kind of crisis. Front-office issues plague the Knicks. The slumping Cavaliers and the miserable Bulls are suffering from internecine disputes between players and management. Injuries may have torpedoed the Clippers’ season for good. And the Mavericks, Suns and Lakers are simply not very good.A game between the Hawks and the Rockets on Thursday is one of the few “good” matchups the league has provided. But it is in keeping with this week’s lineup to take a closer look at one of the troubled teams.To Chicago we go.Dwyane Wade, hometown hero and 12-time All-Star, and Jimmy Butler, the Bulls’ undisputed leader, were removed from the starting lineup on Friday after criticizing their younger teammates earlier in the week. Their comments came on the heels of an embarrassing loss to the Hawks on Wednesday, in which Atlanta went on a 19-4 run in the game’s final three minutes to come back from 10 points down.There was plenty of blame to go around.“It shouldn’t hurt me more than it hurts these young guys,” Wade said. “They have to want it.”But Rajon Rondo, the team’s tempestuous guard, didn’t see it as the younger players’ responsibility. In an Instagram post, he called out the veterans, contrasting their behavior to that of his former Celtics teammates Paul Pierce and Kevin Garnett and criticizing his Bulls teammates for bringing their issues to the news media.Coach Fred Hoiberg has been in the hot seat since his team lost six of seven games in a stretch in mid-December, and he did not escape notice during this latest blowup. Before the game on Friday against the Heat, Wade, asked if Hoiberg had control of the locker room, told reporters to “ask Fred.”Cast a look over the Bulls’ roster. Beyond Butler and Wade, there’s not much in the way of sustainable talent. Taj Gibson is getting older. Nikola Mirotic has faded this season. Robin Lopez has peaked.Of course, great players can do great things with very little help. Just look at the Thunder, the Bulls’ opponent on Wednesday. Russell Westbrook has carried his squad to a record of 28-20 despite a lackluster roster.So maybe Rondo’s perspective is worth taking into account. Maybe Wade and Butler should stop focusing on everything the younger guys on their team are doing wrong. There’s still time for the 24-25 Bulls to get back in shape before the impending trade deadline and more losses change the shape of their team for good.Minnesota at Cleveland, Wednesday, 7 p.m., ESPNAnother Wednesday game and two more struggling squads. The Timberwolves have been a disappointment this season. But they’ve won seven of their last 10. Are they finally beginning to get it? Meanwhile, LeBron James has been squabbling with his team’s management after a recent slump, prompting David Griffin, the Cavs’ general manager, to clarify that he believes the team is on track.Atlanta at Houston, Thursday, 8 p.m., TNTThe Hawks’ latest show of grit came on Sunday when they outlasted the Knicks in four overtimes to prevail, 142-139. Atlanta often plays up to the moment; it has earned victories over the Spurs, the Cavs and the Rockets (in early November). With the Rockets in a bit of a midseason slump, can the Hawks repeat that success in Houston’s house?League Pass Game of the Week: New Orleans at Washington, Saturday, 7 p.m.All streaks end. But the Washington Wizards, who have won 14 straight games at home, will be difficult to beat at the Verizon Center, particularly for the Pelicans, whom the Wizards defeated on the road on Sunday, 107-94. That said, New Orleans has had a good month, taking down the Cavs and the Spurs and showing life in the race for the West’s final playoff spot.With Chris Paul suffering from an injury and Blake Griffin having just returned from one, the coaches chose to award DeAndre Jordan, the Clippers’ center, with his first All-Star selection.Jordan is deserving. But his selection left other players, most notably the Blazers’ Damian Lillard and the Jazz’s Rudy Gobert, out in the cold. Gobert was reportedly irked on Thursday, and it appeared he took his ire out on the Lakers that night, with 9 points, 13 rebounds and 6 blocks.In the Eastern Conference, the clearest snub was the exclusion of the excellent Sixers rookie, Joel Embiid.But Embiid, who has shown a penchant for political jokes, and who was voted as a starter by the fans, seemed to take the news less seriously than Gobert.
Allan H. Steinfeld, who used his scientific background to modernize the technical operations of the New York City Marathon and then succeeded the Barnumesque Fred Lebow as the head of its parent organization, died on Tuesday in Allentown, Pa., near his home in Kutztown. He was 70.The cause was multiple system atrophy, a neurological disease, said his brother Jay Cody.Mr. Steinfeld, who often wore a patch over his blinded left eye, was a cerebral, operations-oriented complement to Mr. Lebow, an impulsive and inspirational entrepreneur who had marketed knockoffs in Manhattan’s garment district.“Fred would throw out all kinds of crazy ideas, and I would reel them in,” Mr. Steinfeld was quoted saying in the book “The New York City Marathon: 25 Years” (1994), by Peter Gambaccini. “That’s what we, as a team, were all about.”Their balance of talents was necessary to cope with a race that, after beginning in 1970 with a field of 127 running entirely in Central Park, grew under the organization of New York Road Runners to one with tens of thousands of people moving through the city’s five boroughs like a great army in shorts and bibs.“First and foremost, Allan had a math mind,” Mary Wittenberg, who succeeded Mr. Steinfeld as the president of New York Road Runners in 2005, said in an interview. “It allowed him to look at crowd flow. One of the first things he said to me was, ‘The way I look at an event is I pretend that people are water, and what’s the rate of flow and where will there be gaps?’ That was the lens he brought to all that he did.”By the time he was named the marathon’s technical director in 1981, a record 14,496 runners had entered the race, increasing the need for greater efficiency.Mr. Steinfeld found ways to improve the management of the start and finish lines, as well as to record results and register participants online. Some of the advances were done with his wife, Alice Schneider, who oversaw information technology for Road Runners. Ms. Schneider died of cancer last year.“They were road racing’s power couple,” Peter Ciaccia, the race director of the marathon, said in an interview. “They developed systems that were in place here for over 30 years. They elevated the marathon so it could become a mass-participation event.”Mr. Steinfeld also built a communications network along the 26.2-mile course using ham radios, Mr. Ciaccia said.Allan Howard Steinfeld was born in Manhattan on June 7, 1946, to Sam Steinfeld, who worked in the import-export field, and the former Faye Litsky, a seamstress and homemaker.He graduated from City College with a degree in electrical engineering and received a master’s degree in radio astronomy from Cornell University. While he was pursuing a doctorate at the University of Alaska Fairbanks, he was struck in the lens of his left eye by the antenna wire of a radio tower.While teaching high school math and physics in Rye Neck, N.Y., he ran regularly in Central Park and volunteered with Road Runners.In 1978, he took a pay cut to become Mr. Lebow’s personal assistant. In 1993, after a dozen years as technical director and Mr. Lebow’s right-hand man, Mr. Steinfeld was named the organization’s president when Mr. Lebow was being treated for brain cancer.A year later, after Mr. Lebow’s death, Mr. Steinfeld was named chief executive.“He did not try to be Fred,” Ms. Wittenberg said. “He evolved greatly as a leader. He had a quiet fire.”As he rode in the lead car at the 2000 marathon, Mr. Steinfeld exulted in what the race had become.“Sometimes, New York has a World Series, if one of the teams is good,” he told The New York Times. “But this event always takes place. It’s a block party for 26.2 miles.”In addition to his brother Jay, Mr. Steinfeld is survived by another brother, Abba Steinfeld.As a young man, Mr. Steinfeld was a sprinter. But he never became much of a marathoner.  In 1966, he entered the Boston Marathon but finished short of the finish line, clinging to a telephone pole. He fared better at the Honolulu Marathon in 1979, finishing with a time of 3 hours 27 minutes 43 seconds.But, according to Road Runners, he never entered the New York City Marathon.
SAN FRANCISCO — It is almost boring how predictably good Alphabet’s earnings are these days — a trait not always shared by the company’s tech conglomerate peers.Apple is wildly profitable, but its results hinge on the fickle preferences of smartphone buyers who may or may not be moved by the iPhone’s latest design. Amazon seems prepared to abandon quarterly profits to invest even more in faster delivery times or in another huge data center. Facebook is still young enough that a little volatility is not out of character.But fourth-quarter results announced on Thursday from Alphabet, Google’s parent company, proved once again that the company is the model of moneymaking consistency.Alphabet’s revenue in the quarter rose 22 percent to $26.06 billion, beating analysts’ expectations. Net income was $5.33 billion, up from $4.92 billion a year earlier.The heart of Alphabet’s consistent earnings remains the company’s search engine. While a consumer can delay an iPhone purchase or shop somewhere other than Amazon, Google’s search engine is an indispensable tool for anyone using the internet. The shift to mobile devices, once considered a threat to Google’s search business, has only strengthened it.Google’s market share on desktop search is around 78 percent, but it is above 90 percent on mobile devices, according to research from NetMarketShare.com. What is more, on smaller mobile displays, Google’s ads occupy a large portion of the screen — making it more likely a user will click on them.Clicks on Google ads increased 36 percent in the quarter, but what advertisers paid for each click decreased 15 percent.Google is also sitting on many of the internet’s most valuable properties — the places where people go to stay in touch on email, find driving directions or seek out entertainment.While clicks on Google’s ads across the internet are rising, they are growing faster on its own websites like YouTube. Alphabet does not break out results for YouTube, but the site continues to amass a huge audience. Google said more than a billion people watched YouTube every month, viewing hundreds of millions of hours of its videos every day.Sundar Pichai, Google’s chief executive, said company assets like search, YouTube, Maps and Google Play, constituted “prime time in the mobile era.”Even Alphabet’s unexpected hiccups are a little dull. The company’s earnings per share were $7.56, or 11 cents below analysts’ estimates. It said the reason for the shortfall was that it paid more in taxes. The company’s effective tax rate for the quarter was 22 percent, compared with 5 percent in the same quarter a year earlier. Alphabet said it paid more in United States taxes but did not explain why.Alphabet shares were down 2 percent in after-hours trading. The stock reached a record high on Wednesday.While the dominance of the Google search engine seems unassailable today, Alphabet is investing heavily in new technologies that may threaten its stronghold. Devices like the Amazon Echo, a voice-activated smart speaker, portend a future where artificially intelligent digital assistants fetch information without needing to access a search engine directly.During the quarter, Google introduced a smartphone called Pixel and Google Home, an Echo competitor. Both devices are vessels for the Google Assistant, the company’s artificial intelligence system. To promote those devices, Alphabet said it spent more on marketing during the quarter. Alphabet said its cost of revenue — an indicator of its spending which also included other costs like operating data centers — rose 30 percent during the quarter from a year earlier.Google did not provide figures for how those products sold, but the “other revenue” category, which included hardware sales along with revenue from Google Play, rose 62 percent to $3.4 billion.Part of the company’s financial stability came from Google’s creation of Alphabet in 2015. The reorganization into a holding company split the company’s core search business from a growing list of fledgling operations, like the newly minted Waymo — what used to be Google’s self-driving car project until it was spun off as an independent Alphabet company in 2016.This move raised the pressure on the company’s so-called other bets, including its life sciences unit, Verily, and its home electronics unit, Nest, to prove that they could be profitable without the support of mother Google. In a sign of the independence of Alphabet companies, Verily announced on Thursday that Singapore’s sovereign fund, Temasek, will acquire a minority stake in Verily for $800 million.Under the watch of Ruth Porat, Alphabet’s chief financial officer, the company has scaled back costs and — in some cases — the ambition of its speculative investments into new technologies. During the quarter, Alphabet said quarterly revenue from “other bets” rose 75 percent to $262 million, while operating losses narrowed to $1.09 billion from $1.21 billion a year earlier.
Travis Ganong won a men’s World Cup downhill race Friday in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany, after his American teammate Steven Nyman and the French skier Valentin Giraud Moine were airlifted to hospitals with serious injuries.The race was held up for half an hour while Giraud Moine received attention after losing control and crashing into the net near spectators. The French Ski Federation said in a statement that Giraud Moine had dislocated both knees.Nyman crashed after a jump into the netting. His season is over, as he sustained a serious knee injury.Ganong claimed his second World Cup win in 1 minute 53.71 seconds, beating Kjetil Jansrud by 0.38 of a second.RECORD SCORE FOR RUSSIAN TEENAGER The Russian teenager Evgenia Medvedeva won gold at the European figure skating championships in Ostrava, Czech Republic, with a world record score for her second straight title in the women’s competition. She earned 150.79 points on her free skate and a total of 229.71, beating Yuna Kim’s record.AMERICAN WINS LUGE SPRINT Erin Hamlin won the women’s luge sprint title in Igls, Austria. It was the third world title in U.S.A. Luge history, the first in Europe, and the first gold for an American in a world championship race since Hamlin prevailed on her home track at Lake Placid, N.Y., in 2009.Oklahoma City Thunder center Enes Kanter had surgery on his broken right forearm a day after he hurt himself punching a chair during a 109-98 victory over the Dallas Mavericks.General Manager Sam Presti said the operation had been successful and that Kanter would be re-evaluated in about four weeks. (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)PLAYER’S EYE POPS OUT An American basketball player’s eye popped out of its socket after he was poked in the face while going for a rebound during a game in New Zealand.Akil Mitchell, a former University of Virginia forward, was playing for the New Zealand Breakers in a game against Cairns on Thursday when the accident happened.The game was stopped for 15 minutes while Mitchell was treated by medical officials. On Friday, Mitchell said he had no vision impairment but would not watch any videos of the incident.The English Football Association has barred Arsenal Manager Arsène Wenger from the touchline for four matches after an altercation with the match official Anthony Taylor in the tunnel area at Emirates Stadium on Sunday during Arsenal’s 2-1 victory over Burnley in the Premier League.LEICESTER ESCAPES WITH DRAW Leicester, the defending champion in England’s Premier League, relied on Wes Morgan’s late goal to salvage a 2-2 draw at second-tier Derby in the fourth round of the F.A. Cup. Morgan’s 86th-minute header ensured that Leicester will have a replay against Derby next month.The Texas Historical Commission has granted landmark status to the Houston Astrodome amid plans to redevelop the vacant stadium. Commission members voted to recognize the Astrodome as a Texas antiquities landmark and to provide legal protections.The Astrodome, which joined the National Register of Historic Places in 2014, opened in 1965 and has been vacant for 18 years. The stadium was declared unfit for occupancy in 2009. Harris County commissioners last year approved a $105 million redevelopment project that includes space for public and other commercial use, plus parking.
SAN FRANCISCO — Apple’s next big business won’t be a self-driving car or an improved smartwatch. It will be digital services like the App Store and Apple Music.The company said on Tuesday that such services brought in $7.2 billion in the quarter that ended in December, and $25.5 billion over the last 12 months.“Our goal is to double the size of our services business in the next four years,” Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, said in a conference call with investors to discuss the company’s financial results.More difficult to predict is what the impact of President Trump’s policies will be on Apple’s business over the next four years.Mr. Cook said he was optimistic about corporate tax cuts proposed by Mr. Trump and Republicans in Congress, and he noted that there was bipartisan support for reducing the tax on overseas profits that American companies must currently pay if they bring the money back to the United States.He said such changes would be good for Apple and for the country. As of Dec. 31, Apple had $246 billion in cash and marketable securities, most of it in foreign accounts.Mr. Cook said nothing on the call about Mr. Trump’s push to limit immigration, which has riled the technology industry.But in an interview with the Wall Street Journal published late Tuesday, he said that he has contacted senior people in the White House and that Apple is studying its legal options.On Friday, the president signed an executive order restricting immigration from seven predominantly Muslim countries, prompting an outcry from Mr. Cook and other tech leaders. The administration is expected to issue another order soon that would change the rules for immigrant worker programs, including the H-1B visa program, which Apple and other tech companies rely on when filling many key jobs.Mr. Trump has also publicly called on Apple to build its iPhones in the United States instead of China.Luca Maestri, Apple’s chief financial officer, said in an interview on Tuesday, “We are working to understand what the new administration’s standpoint is.”The strong growth in services will partly offset a slowdown in sales of Apple’s flagship product, the iPhone. Apple said the number of iPhones sold rose just 5 percent in the first fiscal quarter, which ended in December, despite the introduction of the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus in September. In the past, product upgrades have yielded bigger jumps in sales.“For a while now, we’ve seen Apple take a step back from the iPhone and try to derive value from services,” said Brian Blau, a technology analyst with the research firm Gartner.Over all, the company’s financial results for the quarter were an improvement from the year before, when it struggled with declining revenue. Apple posted revenue of $78.4 billion for the quarter, up 3 percent compared with the previous year. Profits actually fell slightly, to $17.9 billion, but the company used some of its $27 billion in cash flow in the quarter to buy back millions of shares, so earnings per share rose slightly.Apple said it was seeing strong growth globally. In mainland China, sales were flat, after a long run of declines. Apple said its global revenue for the quarter was reduced by 1 percent because of the high value of the dollar. In some countries, Mr. Maestri said, Apple raised prices of its products by as much as 40 percent in local currency terms as the dollar rose.Mr. Cook said that Apple was continuing to explore new services. “We have put our toe in the water with doing some original content for Apple Music,” he said. “We are learning from that.”
Maha al-Obaidi’s family is divided.She immigrated to New York City in 2014, reuniting with her three sons who had arrived earlier. She expected that her husband, Husham al-Qadhi, and her two other sons would soon join her from Amman, Jordan, finally bringing the family together after a tumultuous decade of surviving the Iraq war, fleeing to Jordan and then searching for a permanent home.But on Friday, the family was dealt another blow, after President Trump approved a sweeping executive order on immigration that, among other things, blocked entry into the United States for 90 days for citizens of seven predominantly Muslim countries including Iraq, where members of the family are citizens. Her husband and two sons in Jordan are for now locked out of the United States, and Ms. Obaidi cannot travel away, or risk being denied re-entry.“Now our family in the U.S. can’t even come to visit us, nor can we visit them,” Mr. Qadhi said on Saturday in Amman. “We just sit and watch like the rest of the world what is happening, and our fate is being decided for us, in front of our eyes.”The family lived in Baghdad as American tanks, troops and missiles tore into the Iraqi capital in 2003. It stayed for several years, despite gunfire and bomb blasts outside its house and the kidnapping of several family members. The family helped American soldiers even though other Iraqis targeted it for doing so.One of the sons in Amman, Thabit al-Qadhi, said he and his father had run a snack bar on an American base in Baghdad, serving candy and soft drinks to troops, and operated a 24-hour internet cafe, which required them to be vetted and approved to begin work.After Thabit al-Qadhi was kidnapped in 2006 by Qaeda terrorists and eventually released, he said, he reported details about the episode to American officials in the hope that they would be caught. And on his way home from the Baghdad base one day, he came upon four American troops injured along the road, and he said he had loaded them into his car and driven them to the Green Zone.“America has abandoned its responsibility to protect those who protected and cooperated with the Americans,” he said. “It’s a decision solely based on my religious faith. It’s discrimination solely on religious grounds.”He added: “This is the wrong decision. Is it even constitutional?”The family’s home was along one of Baghdad’s major highways, an entry point for American troops during the invasion. The family huddled in a windowless section of the home for 10 days, as bullets shattered windows and rockets blazed through the sky, until the United States took control of Baghdad.In the years after the invasion, the family remained in Iraq, even as unrest spread, militants took up arms and centuries-old tensions between Sunnis and Shiites flared up.In addition to Thabit al-Qadhi, Ms. Obaidi’s husband was also kidnapped, on two separate occasions. The family members recalled the lengths to which they went to get them freed, how they stuffed $60,000 in Iraqi dinars into garbage bags and were instructed by cellphone to travel to a series of locations before dropping off the ransom.“It was like in the movies,” Ms. Obaidi said in an interview this month.Fearing more attacks, the family left Iraq for Jordan. It joined many other Iraqi refugees, including extended family members. Ms. Obaidi and her husband used their savings to buy a home in Amman. Employment opportunities were scarce for Iraqis, leading three of her sons, starting in 2010, to venture to the United States to find work.When Ms. Obaidi later followed them, she hoped that her entire family could apply for asylum and unite in America. She made the trip despite a number of concerns.“At first, I felt afraid,” she said. “How can I live in this country? It is a foreign country. It is very far from my culture. How will I be compatible with the community?”To her surprise, Ms. Obaidi found New York to be unlike its gruff stereotypes. People smiled as she walked down the street. Men helped her haul heavy bags up stairs. Others offered her seats on the subway.“Everybody in America is very nice,” she said. “They are very polite, helpful people, nice people, always with a smile on their face. That is my experience.”She has found additional support from the International Rescue Committee, a global humanitarian aid, relief and development nongovernmental organization based in New York. Founded in 1933, the organization is the newest organization supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, and the only one of the eight groups whose work extends beyond the New York area. It operates in 29 cities in the United States and in more than 40 countries.The organization was instrumental in helping Ms. Obaidi adjust to her new life and connecting her with a number of social services, including health insurance and food stamps. It helped her obtain a Social Security card, navigate New York’s streets and understand its transportation system. The group also helped her study for her driver’s license permit exam, among other services.“I feel I am not lonely,” she said. “I have somebody. I have somebody to support me.”She shares a home in the Astoria neighborhood in Queens with two of her sons, Saif al-Qadhi and Qaed al-Qadhi. Her third son, Tameem al-Kadhi, and his wife, Melissa Forstrom, also live in the neighborhood.“I have a nice life,” Ms. Obaidi said. “Even though my apartment is small, I feel happy in it. I like it.”But it is a home with some notable, painful absences. “I’ve divided myself,” Ms. Obaidi said. “Some part is there in Jordan, and some parts …” She trailed off, overcome with emotion.In Amman, Thabit al-Qadhi, her oldest son, lives with his wife and 5-year-old son across the street from Ms. Obaidi’s husband, Husham, and their youngest son, Omar al-Qadhi. They have been denied asylum in the United States.In October 2015, Husham al-Qadhi was sent a conditional acceptance letter for asylum in the United States. About a year later, he received a second letter, denying him resettlement. Omar al-Qadhi, who works at Unicef to help provide water, sanitation and hygiene to Syrian refugees in Jordan, was also denied resettlement.“We have lived here as if we were waiting for something, as if everything was temporary, but now we no longer know what we are waiting for,” Omar al-Qadhi said in his apartment in Amman.Thabit al-Qadhi, who has traveled to New York several times to visit his family, has not received the same denial letters for resettlement in the United States. His tourist visa was renewed, but a week later, an officer at the American Embassy in Amman told him that his visa had been canceled, and his case for resettlement was denied.Whether they will ever get approval to move to the United States is even more uncertain now. Thabit al-Qadhi said that Mr. Trump’s order was particularly painful and that he felt America was turning its back on Iraqis who had risked their lives to help soldiers during the war.“At the end we realized we were no longer welcome, neither from the Iraqis because we worked with the Americans, nor from the Americans because we were Iraqi,” he said.Like many Iraqis, Thabit al-Qadhi is living in Jordan on a conditional basis. He must renew his permission every year, and it is dependent on the family’s financial means.“Nothing is guaranteed in business,” he said. “Today, my trade company here is successful, but if one day the business fails, then what will happen? Where do I go?”In the United States, his siblings, even with employment and legal immigration status, live in a similar state of unsteadiness and concern.For three years, Tameem al-Kadhi’s only proof of his legal status was an arrival-departure record known as an I-94 form, a document without a photo of him and only his name and identification numbers. It has hindered his attempts to travel even within the United States. Visas for Saif al-Qadhi’s wife and children were approved recently after a wait of more than two years. They were booked on a plane expected to arrive Feb. 7, but Friday’s executive order by Mr. Trump has dashed those plans.“The kids, they grow up far from their father,” Saif al-Qadhi said. “All of a sudden, I told them ‘I’m sorry, something changed. I may not be able to see you soon.’”He and his wife are distraught by the development, which leaves them in a precarious position. In anticipation of the move, their children were taken out of their private school and the lease on their apartment in Amman is to expire on Feb. 1.“I’m watching the news every second,” Mr. Qadhi said.Ms. Obaidi’s children have been able to acclimate to their new surroundings and establish a rhythm in their lives. Tameem al-Kadhi owns a cellphone store in the East Village in Manhattan, Qaed al-Qadhi works as an information technology manager, and Saif al-Qadhi is an Uber driver. Ms. Obaidi stays busy by volunteering at the Masjid Dar Al-Dawah mosque.The family gathers as often as work schedules and other responsibilities allow, most often on Sundays, when Ms. Obaidi prepares a large meal. They all await the day when more chairs can be placed around the table.Halfway across the world, the other half of the family shares that sentiment. Omar al-Qadhi said he missed his brothers, but especially his mother. “It just feels weird that we are now split, and the future looks grim,” he said. “We are travelers on a journey with no destination, and my family is so far away.”
Donte DiVicenzo’s buzzer-beating tip-in — his only basket of the game — gave top-ranked Villanova a 61-59 victory over No. 12 Virginia in Philadelphia on Sunday and allowed the Wildcats to avoid their first two-game losing streak in four years.Coming off a loss at Marquette on Tuesday, Villanova (20-2) played poorly in the first half and trailed by 12 points with 10 minutes left in the game. But an 11-0 run helped the Wildcats chip away at the deficit, and Villanova had the ball with the score tied and 11.5 seconds left.Josh Hart missed a driving layup, but DiVicenzo tipped the ball in just as the horn sounded. After a brief review by the officials, the basket stood, and the Wildcats mobbed one another at center court.Jalen Brunson and Mikal Bridges each had 15 points for the Wildcats. Ty Jerome led Virginia (16-4) with 15 points.The Wildcats were out of sync in easily their worst first half of the season and perhaps their worst in the last five years. They missed 18 of 22 shots from the floor and nine of 10 3-point attempts. Villanova’s starters made only three baskets in the half, and Hart even fired one shot off the side of the backboard.The game, at Wells Fargo Center, drew a crowd announced at 20,907, the largest to see a college basketball game in Pennsylvania.ARIZONA’S STREAK CONTINUES Kadeem Allen scored 14 points to lead five Arizona players in double figures, and the No. 7 Wildcats wore down visiting Washington, 77-66, to stay alone atop the Pac-12 standings. The Wildcats (20-2, 9-0 Pac-12) won their 14th straight over all and their 18th in a row at home. Markelle Fultz scored 16 points for Washington (9-12, 2-7) but made only eight of 23 shots from the floor.Kyrie Irving scored 29 points, LeBron James had 25 and 14 rebounds, and the Cleveland Cavaliers beat the visiting Oklahoma City Thunder, 107-91, despite another triple-double by the Thunder’s Russell Westbrook.The victory was one of the best performances by the Cavaliers in weeks and their second straight since a tumultuous stretch in which they lost six of eight. That stumble had sparked internal turmoil, with James criticizing the team’s roster after a loss.Westbrook finished with 20 points, 12 rebounds and 10 assists as the Thunder’s three-game winning streak ended.PACERS ROUT ROCKETS Paul George had 33 points while hounding James Harden on defense most of the night to lead the Indiana Pacers over the visiting Houston Rockets, 120-101, for their third straight win. Harden shot 3 of 17 from the floor and finished with 15 points and 8 turnovers as the Rockets wrapped up a five-game trip.AROUND THE N.B.A. Jimmy Butler scored 28 points and Robin Lopez added a season-high 21 points as the Chicago Bulls beat the visiting Philadelphia 76ers, 121-108, bouncing back from consecutive home losses, including one that began with Butler and Dwyane Wade on the bench after they had criticized their teammates.  Nikola Vucevic had 25 points and 10 rebounds, D. J. Augustin added 21 points off the bench, and the Orlando Magic beat the host Toronto Raptors, 114-113.  John Wall had 18 points and 19 assists, Bradley Beal scored 27 points, and the visiting Washington Wizards extended their winning streak to four with a 107-94 victory over the New Orleans Pelicans.Kansas City’s Alex Smith and Cincinnati’s Andy Dalton threw touchdown passes, and Buffalo’s Lorenzo Alexander intercepted a pass with just over a minute left as the A.F.C. won the Pro Bowl, 20-13, over the N.F.C. in Orlando, Fla.New Orleans’s Drew Brees threw a 47-yard touchdown pass for the N.F.C., and Matt Parter kicked two fourth-quarter field goals to keep the outcome in suspense until Alexander intercepted Washington’s Kirk Cousins deep in A.F.C. territory.A SURPRISE HIRE The San Francisco 49ers turned to the former N.F.L. safety and Fox television analyst John Lynch to be their new general manager.Lynch comes into the job with no front-office experience, having gone straight from the playing field to the broadcast booth. But after a lengthy search that included interviews with nine other publicly identified candidates, the team settled on Lynch to replace Trent Baalke, who had been fired along with coach Chip Kelly.Lynch had a stellar 15-year career with Tampa Bay and Denver that included three All-Pro selections and one Super Bowl title with the Buccaneers. He retired in 2008 and is a finalist this year for the Pro Football Hall of Fame.COLTS PICK NEW G.M. The Indianapolis Colts hired Chris Ballard, previously the Kansas City Chiefs’ director of football operations, as general manager.Brittany Lincicome rallied from two strokes down in the final round to force a playoff, then birdied the first playoff hole to win the opening event of the L.P.G.A. Tour, the Bahamas Classic at the Ocean Club on Paradise Island.Lincicome birdied the par-5 18th for a five-under-par 68 to finish in a tie with Lexi Thompson. On 18 again for the first playoff hole, Lincicome hit her second shot to 20 feet and tapped in for birdie and her seventh tour title.A late goal by Mahmoud Kahraba sent Egypt to the last semifinal spot in the Africa Cup of Nations with a 1-0 victory over Morocco in Port-Gentil, Gabon. Earlier, the brothers Jordan and Andre Ayew scored as Ghana advanced over the Democratic Republic of Congo, 2-1, in Oyem.Egypt, a seven-time champion, will face Burkina Faso on Wednesday. Ghana and Cameroon, both four-time winners, play Thursday.A final-hour pass gave Wayne Taylor Racing the win in the Rolex 24 endurance race in Daytona Beach, Fla.Ricky Taylor went inside the Action Express driver Filipe Albuquerque, but contact sent Albuquerque spinning. Officials determined that Taylor did not deserve a penalty, sending his team to its first Rolex victory since 2005.The retired Nascar driver Jeff Gordon was part of the Wayne Taylor team along with the brothers Ricky and Jordan Taylor and their longtime co-driver, Max Angelelli.
An asteroid is a smaller-than-a-planet rock orbiting in the inner solar system. A meteor is the streak of light of a space rock plunging into the atmosphere, and a meteorite is the remnant of space rock that survives the fiery descent and comes to rest on the ground.Thus, one might think that meteorites that fall on Earth ought to be just like the asteroids that pass through Earth’s neighborhood.“That’s what everybody would have expected,” said Philipp R. Heck, the curator in charge for the meteorite and physical geology collections at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago.Planetary scientists were surprised almost a decade ago when they discovered that the most plentiful types of meteorites they had collected and studied on Earth were actually not common in space.In a paper published Monday by the journal Nature Astronomy, an international team of researchers led by Dr. Heck says it has uncovered part of the explanation. Mineralogical evidence in some meteorites had already pointed to a cataclysmic collision in the asteroid belt about 466 million years ago — long before dinosaurs, when multicellular animals were still fairly new. (Dr. Heck estimated that any skywatchers back then would have seen about 100 times as many shooting stars as crisscross the night sky today.)Dr. Heck and his colleagues wanted to examine meteorites that landed on Earth before that, and for that they looked at ancient limestone from Russia — one-time sediment of a seafloor transformed to rock — that was about a million years older.They dissolved almost 600 pounds of rock to extract 46 minuscule crystals containing the mineral chromite. The crystals persist unchanged for hundreds of millions of years, and from the mix of elements in the crystals, the scientists could tell that 41 of them came from space and what types of asteroids they were once part of.The mix of meteorites was very different. Back then, more than a third of them belonged to a type known as primitive achondrites; today, less than half a percent of them are.“It’s really inventive, their approach,” said Tasha L. Dunn, a geology professor at Colby College in Maine who studies meteorites and who was not involved in the research.The findings fits in with the new understanding that a mix of meteorites is determined more by the history of collisions in the asteroid belt rather than by the mix of asteroids whose orbits around the sun are close to Earth’s.“It opens new roads of research,” Pierre Vernazza, a researcher at the Laboratory of Astrophysics of Marseille, France, who first noted the discrepancy between asteroids and meteorites in 2008, said of the new paper.For one, many of the achondrites then came from Vesta, a large asteroid that suffered a powerful impact about a billion years ago. But then there are other achondrites that did not. “In the case of the other achondrites, we don’t have any well-known source so far,” Dr. Vernazza said.
An anti-abortion group released a video this week purporting to show that Planned Parenthood does not offer comprehensive prenatal services, an accusation that the women’s health organization said deliberately misrepresented its mission.The group, Live Action, said that of 97 Planned Parenthood centers it had contacted, only five said they provided prenatal care, one of the many medical services offered by the organization, which has approximately 650 health centers operated by 57 affiliates across the country.In an interview on Tuesday, Mary Alice Carter, a spokeswoman for Planned Parenthood, pointed out the group’s history of being targeted with selectively edited videos, and said that the new video, which was released on Monday, tried to hold the organization to a standard it had not set for itself.“It is safe to say that not every single one of our health centers provides prenatal care, and we’ve never said otherwise,” Ms. Carter said.According to an annual report published in 2015, the most recent period for which information was available, eight Planned Parenthood affiliates of the 59 that existed at the time reported that they had provided 17,419 individual prenatal services.Ms. Carter said that “100 percent” of the organization’s health centers would provide what would be considered an initial prenatal visit, which would include a referral for further prenatal services that would be available elsewhere.She added of the new video, “This is obviously part of a continued campaign to try to discredit us even though investigation after investigation found no wrongdoing in any of our health centers.”In July 2015, the Center for Medical Progress, another anti-abortion group, set off a congressional investigation of Planned Parenthood after publishing secretly recorded videos that it claimed showed the organization’s affiliates illegally profiting from selling tissue from aborted fetuses.A private research company found that those videos had been manipulated and were unreliable.The latest video was released days before a planned anti-abortion march was to take place in Washington. Organizers of the march on Friday, which will feature a speech from a close adviser to President Trump, Kellyanne Conway, expect to draw tens of thousands of demonstrators, according to a spokeswoman, Kate Bryan.Live Action, whose website asks visitors to sign a petition asking that taxpayer funds for Planned Parenthood be cut off, has targeted the organization for nearly a decade. Live Action’s founder and president, Lila Rose, who has said she started campaigning against abortion when she was 15 years old, has worked hand in hand with James O’Keefe, whose undercover videos helped to bring down Acorn, once the nation’s largest grass-roots community organizing group, after a sting operation.Information on the Live Action video — when it was shot and by whom, for instance — was not immediately clear. A representative for Live Action could not be reached by phone on Tuesday.Planned Parenthood provides medical services to women in 49 of the 50 states. The organization, which supports women’s reproductive rights, saw a surge in donations — about 40 times more than in a typical week — from nearly 200,000 people in the week after the presidential election.Planned Parenthood has long been under attack by anti-abortion groups and members of the Republican Party. Some lawmakers were willing to shut down the federal government last fall because a spending bill did not include language that would cut off funding for the organization.Mr. Trump’s proposed cabinet is filled with opponents of abortion, including Vice President Mike Pence — who has fought to deny federal funds to the group — and Representative Tom Price of Georgia, Mr. Trump’s choice to lead the Department of Health and Human Service.On Monday, Mr. Trump reinstated a policy that prohibits American foreign aid from going to any health providers abroad that offer abortion counseling or advocate that patients seek an abortion.Mr. Trump himself had once supported abortion rights, but changed his mind during the campaign, saying that women who received abortions should be dealt “some sort of punishment,” a statement that he later retracted.In a letter sent to leaders of the anti-abortion movement in September, Mr. Trump said that he was committed to defunding Planned Parenthood “as long as they continue to fund abortions.”
WASHINGTON — Droves of men, women and children opposing abortion swarmed the National Mall on Friday in a demonstration that served not only as a rallying cry for their movement, but as a peaceful act of support for the new president they have embraced as their improbable champion.The crowd gathered just a few blocks from where hundreds of thousands of women marched last weekend to protest President Trump — a striking and symbolic juxtaposition for a country cleaved by its most recent election.The contrast was not lost on the marchers or the speakers, who were optimistic that their cause would benefit greatly from having anti-abortion Republicans in control of Congress, the White House and, they hoped, eventually the Supreme Court.As much as the march on Friday spoke to the divided politics of the moment, it also pointed to a sweeping shift in policy under the new administration. Mr. Trump, who has committed to rolling back abortion rights and naming anti-abortion justices to the Supreme Court, sent two of the highest-ranking White House officials to address the crowd. It was a gesture of solidarity that march organizers said went further than any Republican administration had gone.The two officials, Vice President Mike Pence and Kellyanne Conway, a counselor to the president who has been a leading figure in the anti-abortion movement for two decades, told the marchers of the White House’s dedication to their cause.“Life is winning again in America,” Mr. Pence said to cheers from the tens of thousands of people amassed at the foot of the Washington Monument. Mr. Pence’s appearance was a first for the March for Life, which has taken place every year since the Supreme Court legalized abortion in 1973, but had never before been attended by a vice president. Republican presidents have spoken to the march before, but by video or audio.Ms. Conway, who was introduced at the march as “one of us,” told the crowd that their voices would no longer be ignored. “We hear you. We see you. We respect you,” she said. “And we look forward to working with you.”Mr. Trump reinforced his solidarity with the movement by sending a Twitter post saying, “The #MarchForLife is so important. To all of you marching — you have my full support!”Endearing himself to social conservatives in a way that many did not think possible, Mr. Trump has cast himself as the most unflinchingly anti-abortion president in at least a generation, breaking with previous Republican nominees who generally took a more tepid approach when discussing the issue. President George W. Bush insisted that he would apply no “litmus test” to his Supreme Court nominees on any issue, including abortion. His father, President George Bush, said the same thing, using the same language, reinforcing the mistrust of many social conservatives.But Mr. Trump not only insisted that he would pick an anti-abortion justice to replace Antonin Scalia — whose seat has been vacant since he died last year — he signed a four-part pledge to take policy steps considered vital to the movement, including a commitment to sign a ban on abortion after 20 weeks of pregnancy, if such legislation reaches his desk.It has been a remarkable turnaround for a man who spent much of his life as a supporter of abortion rights and who once described himself as “very pro-choice.” Yet during the campaign, Mr. Trump spoke more vividly and more forcefully on the issue than any recent Republican nominee, disregarding years of established practice from conservatives who believed that it was political suicide to sound too radical.Shortly after he was elected, Mr. Trump said women might have to cross state lines to have an abortion because his goal was to see Roe v. Wade overturned. He graphically characterized Hillary Clinton as someone who would tolerate abortion up until the point a doctor could “rip the baby out of the womb of the mother just prior to the birth.” He also said at one point that he believed women who had abortions should be punished, a statement he later had to walk back after even anti-abortion groups said he had gone too far.At Mr. Pence’s mention of the president’s name on Friday, marchers cheered. Some waved “Trump” flags and wore “Make America Great Again” hats. One carried a sign that said “Trump for Baby Bumps.”Not all in the crowd were always with him. Rebecca Klein, 48, of Lakeland, Fla., was attending her first March for Life on Friday. “I was never a Trump supporter, but I’ve been a Trump voter ever since it came down to two candidates,” she said, describing her vote for him the way many social conservatives have — transactional and dispassionate.“Personally, I can’t speak for what the man believes in his heart,” Ms. Klein added. “But what I do know is that coming into office he’s taken a stance, regardless of what he personally believes. And I believe he’s going to keep his word to us.”Annette Saunders, 60, drove five hours with her husband from Norwalk, Conn. Though she voted for Mr. Trump, she said agonized over the decision. One factor swayed her: the Supreme Court.“I was concerned, but I felt like God told me to vote for Donald Trump,” she said. “He is standing up for pro-life, and his vice president certainly is. And I’m excited about seeing a turnaround.”Many marchers spoke hopefully about the change of power in Washington and what it could mean for their cause.“I feel empowered. I feel positive. I feel encouraged about the future,” said Anne Nudi, 49, a nurse and college professor, who flew from her home in Kenosha, Wis., to attend the march. “And I feel blessed that I have a president who is supportive of our cause,” she said, shivering as she recalled some of Mr. Trump’s promises and actions, like his order this week prohibiting foreign aid to entities that discuss abortion as a family-planning option.Marchers traveled to Washington in church groups, on high school class trips and in family minivans. Many noted with a hint of disapproval that they could not be more different from the anti-Trump Women’s March last Saturday — culturally or politically.Jennifer Brock, 55, from Scranton, Pa., held a pink sign that read, “When they go nasty, we go classy,” a hybrid allusion to Mr. Trump’s “nasty woman” attack on Mrs. Clinton and the Michelle Obama-coined slogan, “When they go low, we go high.”Ms. Brock said she found many of the women last week crass and self-degrading with their “pussy hats” and obscenity-laced signs and speeches. “My idea as a woman is that we can speak and be strong, but I don’t know that it really helps our cause to be vulgar and nasty,” she said. “I’d like to present a different message: that women can be strong and dignified and gracious.”Valerie Schram, 53, came with her Baltimore church group. She, too, could not help but note the disparities with the crowd from last weekend. “We know what we’re about,” she said. “This march isn’t about us.”
Type the word refugees into Facebook and some alarming “news” will appear about a refugee rape crisis, a refugee flesh-eating disease epidemic and a refugee-related risk of female genital mutilation — none of it true.For the months leading up to the presidential election, and in the days since President Trump took office, ultraconservative websites like Breitbart News and Infowars have published a cycle of eye-popping stories with misleading claims about refugees. And it is beginning to influence public perception, experts say.That shift was evident on Friday, as many Americans heralded the news that the Trump administration intended to temporarily curb all refugee resettlement and increase the vetting of Syrians.“There really is a kind of cultural battle going on,” said Cecillia Wang, the deputy legal director for the American Civil Liberties Union. “There’s no question that kind of xenophobic or anti-Muslim bias is infecting our political discourse about refugees.”In speaking to pollsters about refugee resettlement, Americans tend to cite concerns about the country’s national security and economic health as their biggest worries, but they have also begun to point to disease or rape, experts say.“This is something where the fear outruns the fact by a factor of 100 to 1 or even 1,000 to 1,” said William Galston, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who has tracked American sentiment about refugee resettlement over years.Mr. Galston said the reaction to misleading coverage of refugees was reminiscent of the wave of measures introduced in state legislatures in recent years to stop the spread of Islamic law, despite scant evidence that it has been promoted anywhere. And while he doubted that alarmist stories about refugees were powerful enough to change people’s minds, he said the coverage played to existing fears and pushed mere differences of opinion into hyperpartisan outrage.“I think their opinions are being intensified because the intensification of contrary sentiments is increasing polarization,” Mr. Galston said.Outside his job as a police officer in Kansas, Okla., Mike Eason begins and ends his day with the television news — first CBS, then Fox, but never CNN, which he hates. Then, he scrolls through Facebook, where he’s read stories about refugees who commit violent crimes against women.“It’s one of them Facebook things where you see Muslim men are attacking women, and stuff like that, and having no respect for them at all. I’ve got a real issue with that,” he said. “I see story after story after story, and I don’t know how true it is.”Mr. Eason said he was skeptical of stories by unfamiliar websites like American News, but he reads them anyway. He commented on one that was posted to Facebook:The post, which was shared 14,000 times, linked to a story about a case in which the authorities have not described the immigration status of the suspect, or said that he was a noncitizen. They have also discredited the claim that the man yelled “Allahu akbar” during the episode.Nevertheless, the comment that Mr. Eason posted on the site, which he later said he could not remember making, garnered 87 likes. “If Muslims are taught hate by their religion,” he wrote, “then all Muslims are potential terrorists and should be treated accordingly. TRUMP will stop this kind of stuff.”Sgt. Timothy Briggeman of the Cass County Sheriff’s Office in North Dakota, which is investigating the case, said such stories and responses often appeared on social media when a person in his jurisdiction with an Arabic-sounding name is charged with a crime.“To be honest,” he said, “it’s embarrassing and it’s disheartening when anyone with a name of such ends up in the news — the comments that get thrown around. That seems to be the No. 1 remark: ‘Send them back and get rid of them,’ and, ‘We don’t need them.’”Worries that refugees might be radicalized have also been amplified on the internet. This story was shared at least 1,400 times:And this one, posted by The Daily Caller, was shared more than 3,000 times, despite linking to a story with no evidence of a cover-up:The actual number of refugees who have become extremists in the United States has been estimated at between three and 12 — out of the more than 800,000 who have resettled here since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.The online stories about refugees range from outright fake news to those based on a grain of truth and then stretched out of proportion. For example, the Breitbart article about genital mutilation was based on a study that estimated that a half-million women currently living in the United States have had their genitals mutilated. But most of them were immigrants who had fled here because of such treatment in their home countries.Mr. Eason, the police officer in Oklahoma, said that part of the challenge for him in evaluating stories on the internet is that many are written with headlines that appeal to common sense.He pointed to the vetting of Syrian refugees, for example, which is currently under review as part of Mr. Trump’s executive order. As The New York Times has reported, the process involves dozens of layers of evaluation and can last up to two years.But Mr. Eason has read stories that suggest the conditions in Syria are so bad that it is impossible to verify refugees’ stories, which has made him worry that no level of scrutiny will be sufficient.“They were saying with them coming from these areas, it’s hard to vet them,” Mr. Eason said. “And it makes sense.”
Drugs approved in recent years that can cure hepatitis C may have severe side effects, including liver failure, a new report suggests.The number of adverse events appears relatively small, and the findings are not conclusive. But experts said the report was a warning that should not be ignored. It involves nine widely used antiviral drugs that were heralded as a huge advance because they greatly increased cure rates, seemingly with few side effects.The report will be published online on Wednesday by the Institute for Safe Medication Practices, a nonprofit in Horsham, Pa., that studies drug safety. Its findings are based on the group’s analysis of the Food and Drug Administration’s database of reports from doctors around the world of adverse events that might be related to medications.Dr. Robert S. Brown, the director of the Center for Liver Disease and Transplantation at NewYork-Presbyterian at Columbia and Weill Cornell, who was not involved in the study, said that there had been other, scattered accounts of problems with the new drugs and that they should be investigated further.“We don’t want people to ignore it and lead to risks to patients,” he said. “We don’t want people to overreact and not treat patients who should be treated. A lot of doctors are unclear about it, and if doctors are unclear, patients are, too.”Dr. Brown added that problems might arise from some doctors’ prescribing incorrectly, giving the drugs to patients with liver function too poor to tolerate them or benefit from them.Hepatitis C is an enormous public health problem. Caused by a virus, it leads to chronic liver disease in most people who contract it, and some eventually develop cirrhosis and liver cancer.In the United States, an estimated 2.7 million to 3.9 million people have chronic hepatitis C, at least 20,000 a year die from it and it is the leading cause of liver transplants, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.Globally, the World Health Organization reports 130 million to 150 million current chronic cases, and 700,000 deaths per year.The virus is blood-borne, and the most common source of infection is needle-sharing among people who use illicit drugs. In the United States before 1992, when a test became available to screen donated blood, many cases were caused by transfusions. In countries where the blood supply is not screened, transfusions still pose a risk. Needlestick injuries and other hospital accidents may also cause some cases.There is no vaccine to prevent the infection, so treatments have long been eagerly sought.The drugs covered in the new report include two blockbusters, Sovaldi and Harvoni, both made by Gilead Sciences and priced at $1,000 a pill, with billions of dollars in sales. Sovaldi was approved in 2013, and Harvoni in 2014. These drugs and other antivirals can cure the disease in 12 weeks in many patients.Earlier drugs were less effective, had to be taken for much longer and had harsh side effects that left many patients unable to finish the course of therapy.About 250,000 people took the newer drugs in 2015, the report said, at tremendous expense: $55,000 to $125,000 per patient. In those treated during the year ending June 30, 2016, the report identified 524 with liver failure, 165 of whom died. Of those with liver failure, 386 were from outside the United States. An additional 1,058 had severe liver injury, and in 761 the drugs appeared not to work.But whether the drugs were to blame is not known. The problems were observed by doctors who suspected drugs were the cause, but that does not prove cause and effect. And details about the patients’ medical histories were not available.A spokesman for Gilead, Mark Snyder, wrote in an email, “We closely assess both post-marketing safety reports as well as safety data from our clinical trials on an ongoing basis and have found no suggestion of a causal relationship between Sovaldi or Harvoni and liver failure.”He added that Gilead’s drugs had been approved for people with severe liver disease from hepatitis C, and that some would inevitably suffer liver failure despite the best treatment.The F.D.A. received a copy of the report, but declined to discuss it. A spokeswoman, Theresa Eisenman, wrote in an email, “The F.D.A. does not typically comment on specific studies, but evaluates them as part of the body of evidence to further our understanding about a particular issue and assist in our mission to protect public health.”For all types of drugs, the agency received nearly 300,000 new reports of adverse events during the second quarter of 2016, from the United States and other countries.Most of the events were described by doctors and other health professionals. Because reporting is voluntary for doctors, researchers generally suspect that many problems go unreported and that the real number is higher.In October, the F.D.A. identified the first major safety problem caused by the nine antiviral drugs. In 24 patients, the drugs wiped out hepatitis C — but also reactivated hepatitis B infections that had been dormant. Two of those patients died, and one needed a liver transplant. The agency said there were probably additional cases that had not been reported.As a result, the agency required that a boxed warning, its most prominent advisory, be added to the labeling of the newer antivirals, telling doctors to screen and monitor for hepatitis B in all patients taking the drugs for hepatitis C. Infection with both viruses is not common, and how the reactivation occurs is not known. The problem was not detected during premarket testing of the drugs because patients who currently had hepatitis B or who had a history of it were not allowed into the studies.With testing and the right treatment, Dr. Brown said, hepatitis B reactivation should be completely preventable.The other cases of liver failure are a separate problem. He said it was important for doctors prescribing the newer drugs to test patients’ liver function thoroughly first, because liver disease can be deceptive, and people who look well may actually be on the brink of liver failure and therefore not candidates for the drugs.Thomas J. Moore, a senior scientist at the Institute for Safe Medication Practices and an author of the report, said the study reflected a larger question about the drug approval process. Approval for the newer hepatitis C drugs was expedited because better treatments were so badly needed. But does the rush to market come at a price?“Gosh, here is something that really qualifies as a breakthrough, and we have policies to get it into use as quickly as possible, which means we know less about it,” Mr. Moore said. “Benefits and side effects evolve over the long term, not over 12 weeks.”
People often ask me “who these people are” — those who elected Donald J. Trump or those who voted for Hillary Clinton.They’ll ask, “What’s the single best description of Trump supporters?” My answer often disappoints them. It’s quite simple: They’re Republicans. When they ask about Clinton supporters, the answer is similar: They’re Democrats.It seems like a frustrating answer, but for more than six decades, party identification has been shaping the vote. Political scientists have long held that party labels do more than just summarize people’s views on issues and policies. They are expressions of an identity. This trait, like many others, may be learned in the laps of our parents and in our neighborhoods when we are young, the same way we learn about our ethnicities or religions.And it seems we also want to perpetuate that identity in successive generations. A survey of whom American voters prefer for their children’s marriage partners shows just how powerful party identification has become.To track the power of party identification on voting, every four years since 1952, the American National Election Study has asked a random sample of Americans which party they identified with and whom they voted for in the most recent presidential election.In 1952 and 1956, nearly all self-proclaimed Republicans (96 percent) voted for Dwight Eisenhower, while nearly three-quarters of Democrats voted for Adlai Stevenson. Party voting remained the norm for Richard Nixon in 1960, 1968 and 1972, with more than 9 of 10 Republicans choosing him over the Democrat. The Democrats came close to this level of party loyalty in 1964 when Lyndon Johnson faced Barry Goldwater.Some candidates do worse than others. Senator Goldwater didn’t hold his party together as well (only 73 percent of Republicans were loyal to him in 1964), nor did Hubert Humphrey (77 percent), George McGovern (59 percent) or Jimmy Carter (74 percent in 1980). But by the late 1980s, nearly everyone who identified with a party or even leaned slightly toward a party voted for that party’s candidate in the presidential election.There have been very few deviations from this pattern over the last two decades. Roughly 90 percent of partisans voted for the candidate from their party in every year since 2000.For all of its unexpected moments, 2016 looks an awful lot like all the other years: There was no meaningful shift in the pattern of intraparty voting.The stability of in-party voting suggests that either the parties are getting better at nominating high-quality candidates or membership in the parties has become more homogeneous — so that a typical candidate now gets the support of more partisans because partisans are now more alike than they were 50 years ago. There’s some evidence that both of these things are true, but another way to see the power of partisanship as a social identity is to look at something completely different: marriage.In 1958, the Gallup Organization asked a random sample of Americans a question about what kind of man people wanted their daughters to marry — a Democrat or a Republican. The question read: If you had a daughter of marriageable age, would you prefer she marry a Democrat or a Republican, all other things being equal?In the late 1950s, 18 percent of respondents said they would want their daughter to marry a Democrat, 10 percent a Republican, and the remainder, 72 percent, either didn’t answer or said they didn’t care.I asked a representative sample of people a version of this question (that included “son or daughter”) in the week before the 2016 election and found changes that mimic the changes in the intensity of intraparty voting over these same years. In 2016, more people care about the party of their future in-law than cared in 1958, and there is more desire for same-party marriage than there was in the 1950s.In 2016, 28 percent of respondents said they wanted their son or daughter to marry a Democrat and 27 percent a Republican, leaving only 45 percent to say they didn’t care.People who identified with a party had even more intense feelings. In 1958, 33 percent of Democrats wanted their daughters to marry a Democrat, and 25 percent of Republicans wanted their daughters to marry a Republican. But by 2016, 60 percent of Democrats and 63 percent of Republicans felt that way.People in each party now share more similar views on issues and they are more alike in race and ethnicity. Americans may be increasingly surrounded by those who are like-minded — and they seem to prefer to keep it that way for the next generation.
An Arizona man who prosecutors said helped a college student from New York City join ISIS, sending him “down that trail to terror” — and to his eventual death — was convicted Monday of terrorism charges.The man, Ahmed Mohammed el-Gammal, 44, was found guilty after a three-week jury trial and faces up to 55 years in prison, according to a spokesman for Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York.In a statement, Mr. Bharara hailed the verdict as a vindication of the role of civilian courts in such cases, which some Republicans lawmakers have argued should be tried in military courts instead.“Once again, we have shown that terrorists and terrorist enablers can be brought to justice fairly, openly and swiftly in the crown jewel of our justice system: civilian courts,” Mr. Bharara said in the statement. He also described Mr. Gammal as an “ambassador” for the Islamic State.Prosecutors argued during the trial that, on Aug. 14, 2014, Samy el-Goarany, a 24-year-old resident of New York City, had reached out to Mr. Gammal after learning of his support for the Islamic State. Within an hour, Mr. Gammal had shared a documentary film that described the kind of training the Islamic State provided.The two kept in touch in the ensuing months until, in October 2014, Mr. Gammal traveled to the city to meet with Mr. El-Goarany, according to the prosecutor’s office. Once there, Mr. Gammal provided Mr. El-Goarany with the phone number of a contact in Turkey who could help him cross the border into Syria. In January 2015, Mr. El-Goarany embarked for Turkey.Mr. Gammal later asked Mr. El-Goarany about the prospect of joining him in Syria, but was ultimately arrested in Avondale, Ariz., in August 2015, according to prosecutors.That November, Mr. El-Goarany’s brother received a message from an Islamic State member with a letter attached from Mr. El-Goarany, the authorities said.“If you’re reading this, then know that I’ve been killed in battle and am now with our Lord, inshallah,” or God willing, it read.Mr. Gammal was convicted of one count each of providing material support to a designated foreign terrorist group, conspiring to provide material support to such a group, receiving military-type training from such a group, and conspiring to receive military-type training from such a group. A sentencing date has not been set.Sabrina Shroff, Mr. Gammal’s lead defense lawyer, declined to comment on the case.As of Monday, 114 people had been charged in the United States on offenses related to the Islamic State since the first such arrest in March 2014, according to Seamus Hughes, deputy director of the Program on Extremism at George Washington University. Mr. Gammal is the 63rd to have pleaded or been found guilty, he said.Mr. Hughes, who followed the case closely, said Mr. Gammal’s lawyers were particularly fervent in their defense.“It was almost like watching a boxing match between the U.S. attorney and federal defenders,” he said. But, he added, “it was an uphill battle to begin with.”
HALLANDALE BEACH, Fla. — In the end, it was Arrogate who turned in the kind of performance that California Chrome had become known for during his storybook career.Arrogate won the richest race ever run, the inaugural $12 million Pegasus World Cup, on Saturday at Gulfstream Park by four and three-quarters lengths to earn a $7 million first-place check and deny his rival, the retiring California Chrome, in his bid to go out on top as the highest-earning thoroughbred in history.With the Hall of Fame jockey Mike Smith aboard, Arrogate broke from the rail and quickly settled in while California Chrome broke from the outside post and immediately had to head inside to make up ground. Soon they were neck and neck, stalking the leaders, and the showdown that everyone had been expecting appeared to be on as they came around the far turn.But it was soon apparent that California Chrome would not turn in the kind of performance that his legions of fans, from California to the United Arab Emirates, had come to expect.Under the South Florida sunshine, Arrogate found a new gear and motored away to win the mile-and-an-eighth race in 1 minute 47.61 seconds over a fast track. He returned $3.80 on a $2 bet to win.“Once I got out going into the far turn, I knew we were going to be very tough to beat,” Smith said. “He had a lot of run today, and I was very happy. As far as winning the world’s richest race, I’m absolutely numb.”A two-time horse of the year, California Chrome was eased in the stretch by his longtime jockey, Victor Espinoza, and finished ninth. He nonetheless ended his remarkable career as the highest-earning thoroughbred in North American history, with $14,752,650 in winnings. (Several Japanese horses have earned more.)Arrogate’s normally loquacious trainer, Bob Baffert, was elated yet subdued after the race. He, too, had hoped to see a sequel to the duel between Arrogate and California Chrome in the Breeders’ Cup Classic in November.“I kept waiting for the matchup with Chrome, but he just didn’t bring his race today,” Baffert said, adding, “That’s not the Chrome I know.”California Chrome’s 80-year-old trainer, Art Sherman, was at a loss. “This is the first bad race he’s ever run for us,” he said while wondering if there was something amiss physically with his horse.His jockey may have had the simplest explanation. “There wasn’t enough gas in there,” Espinoza said. “He was empty.”Shaman Ghost, raced by Gulfstream Park’s owner, Frank Stronach, finished second, earning $1.75 million. Neolithic finished third for a $1 million share.Unlike the Dubai World Cup and other major global stakes races, the Pegasus had a purse provided entirely by entry fees, with owners shelling out $1 million for a spot in the starting gate, making it more like a poker game than a horse race.Without such a lucrative event, the 6-year-old California Chrome would have already been in the breeding shed at Taylor Made Farm, preparing to earn $40,000 per live foal that stands and nurses.Arrogate, meanwhile, would have been preparing for his 4-year-old campaign, with the 2017 Breeders’ Cup Classic as his main target after an outstanding 2016 in which he ascended in his own right, not merely as the foil in Chrome’s bid for a perfect season.In August at Saratoga Race Course, Arrogate put on a performance for the ages, winning the Travers Stakes by 13 ½ lengths in 1:59.36, a track record for the mile-and-a-quarter distance. Then, in the thrilling Breeders’ Cup Classic, Arrogate ran down California Chrome in the stretch to win by a half-length.But Arrogate did not even have a spot in the Pegasus, the brainchild of Stronach, until after the Breeders’ Cup. His owner, Juddmonte Farms, had to buy Coolmore’s spot in the starting gate, for an undisclosed sum.The other finishers each received $250,000, and participants will also split earnings from sponsorships and wagers on the race, including multirace bets. The 12-race program amassed more than $40 million in handle, most likely enough to ensure that the fourth through 12th finishers will earn back at least half their entry fees. All participants retain the right of first refusal for a spot in next year’s event.This year’s race closed the book on California Chrome’s remarkable career, in which he came from modest beginnings to secure victories in the Kentucky Derby, the Preakness Stakes and the $10 million Dubai World Cup.“It’s not really unbelievable to me what he’s been able to accomplish,” said Duncan Taylor, an owner of Chrome and the president of Taylor Made. “He’s a very attractive horse; he’s got charisma; he has the rags-to-riches story. People can relate to that.”Before Chrome, Sherman had never conditioned a contender in a Triple Crown race. But Chrome, who was bred from an $8,000 mare and a middling sire whose services at the time cost only $2,000, romped to victory in the 2014 Kentucky Derby, making Sherman the oldest trainer to have won the sport’s most prestigious race. Two weeks later, Chrome won again in the Preakness Stakes, but his Triple Crown quest ended with a thud at the Belmont Stakes when he was banged up leaving the gate and finished fourth.Although he fell short of a Triple Crown, California Chrome’s success endeared his Everyman owners, Perry and Denise Martin and Steve and Carolyn Coburn, to many. (The Coburns sold their share to Taylor Made in 2015.) His performance also revitalized Espinoza’s career, which had been on a downswing. Although he had won more than 3,000 races, mounts were harder to come by for Espinoza, an aging rider from Mexico who was long past his prime. But Chrome’s success allowed Espinoza to pick up the mount on another superstar horse, American Pharoah.California Chrome will leave behind a landscape that encourages owners to keep stars on the track instead of retiring them to the breeding shed.“The peak of these horses’ popularity would be in their final years because people have had enough time to become very familiar with who they are and how brilliant they are, and what amazing personalities and characters they are,” said Garrett O’Rourke, the manager of Juddmonte. “That’s what California Chrome has created, and we all admire what a magnificent specimen he is.”
Ira Goldberg, the executive director of the Art Students League of New York, the 142-year-old nonprofit art school, will step down from that post at the end of this month to live in Spain.Mr. Goldberg, who has directed the league since 2001 and been associated with it since 1979, when he took a drawing class with Robert Beverly Hale, told members in an email last week that he and his wife, Silvia, “fell in love” last month with a village in Andalusia and bought a house there.“It has been the greatest privilege of my life to have been part of the Art Students League,” Mr. Goldberg wrote. “The League will always be with me, heart and soul.”Mr. Goldberg’s departure is the second leadership change for the league in a short period. Salvatore Barbieri, who had served as president of the league’s board for 10 years, stepped down last month.The league’s board had been criticized in recent years for what some members said was a mishandling of the sale of air rights connected to the league’s French Renaissance-style headquarters on West 57th Street and over proposed changes to the league’s constitution.The current league president, Ellen Taylor, was warm in her praise for Mr. Goldberg, saying in a separate message to members that he had “worked tirelessly to keep the spark alive” by presiding over programs developed during his tenure that placed work by emerging artists into exhibitions and arranged for league members to teach young people who would otherwise have little contact with art.The position of executive director will be filled on an interim basis starting Feb. 1, she wrote, by Timothy Clark, a longtime league instructor whose works are in more than 20 museums, including the permanent collection of the Smithsonian National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C.Ms. Taylor wrote that one of Mr. Clark’s greatest strengths is that he knows, understands and respects the culture of the league. She added, “He is one of us.”
Arthur H. Rosenfeld, a physicist who became widely known as the father of energy efficiency for championing energy-saving requirements for appliances and buildings, died on Friday in Berkeley, Calif. He was 90.The cause was related to pneumonia, said Adam Gottlieb, a marketing and outreach specialist with the California Energy Commission, with which Dr. Rosenfeld worked for 10 years.His work, embraced at first in California under Gov. Jerry Brown, gained national attention and helped lay the foundation for federal energy-efficiency rules that are in place today.Dr. Rosenfeld’s awakening to energy efficiency came in 1973, when the Arab oil embargo caused energy prices to soar and long lines to form at gas pumps. He was then 18 years into a highly regarded academic career in nuclear and particle physics at the University of California, Berkeley.One Friday night in November 1973, vexed at Americans’ tendency to waste huge amounts of energy even at the height of the crisis, Dr. Rosenfeld decided to turn out the lights in all 20 offices on his laboratory’s floor. He had always turned off his own lights — a product, perhaps, of his having lived through the Great Depression. But most of his colleagues did not, even when leaving for the weekend.Dr. Rosenfeld calculated the amount of oil-equivalent energy wasted, and searched behind cabinets, bookcases and posters for the switches.“After 20 minutes of uncovering light switches (and saving 100 gallons for the weekend), I decided that U.C. Berkeley and its Radiation Laboratory should do something about conservation,” he wrote in a short autobiography posted on the California Energy Commission website.He immediately convened academics and other experts to figure out what to do about the country’s energy-guzzling habits. The problem was easy to diagnose, he wrote: “Oil and gas were as cheap as dirt or water, and so they were treated like dirt or water.”Having traveled to physics laboratories abroad, Dr. Rosenfeld knew that Europeans used far less energy per unit of economic output than Americans did yet maintained similar living standards. Surely, he reasoned, the United States could cut its energy use, too.In 1975, he created the Energy Efficient Buildings Program (later renamed the Center for Building Science) at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and set about studying how making appliances like refrigerators and air-conditioners more efficient could cut energy use significantly and save billions of dollars. (One byproduct of the lab’s research was the introduction of energy-efficient compact fluorescent lamps.)Dr. Rosenfeld’s ideas caught the ears of powerful people, including Governor Brown, then in his first tenure in that office. (He was elected again in 2010.) Dr. Rosenfeld shared a dinner table with Mr. Brown at a faculty club event at Berkeley in the mid-1970s, and the two discussed a proposed nuclear plant called Sundesert.Dr. Rosenfeld told the governor that just by requiring refrigerators to be more energy efficient, the state could save as much electricity as the Sundesert plant would produce. The next morning, Dr. Rosenfeld got a call from a top California energy official.“He said, ‘Art, I think you’d be happy to know that Jerry Brown woke me up this morning at 8 a.m. to know if this guy Art Rosenfeld is real,’” Dr. Rosenfeld recalled years later. “And that was the unraveling of Sundesert.”Energy-efficiency requirements for refrigerators and freezers sold in California went into effect in 1977. They were soon followed by standards for other appliances. In 1987, the federal government, following California’s lead, began imposing its own efficiency requirements for appliances.California also adopted, in 1978, the first state energy-efficient building code, partly as a result of Dr. Rosenfeld’s research. In what is sometimes called the “Rosenfeld effect,” California’s per-capita electricity use has remained relatively steady since the mid-1970s, despite the proliferation of gadgetry. The rest of the nation’s usage, meanwhile, has climbed.Arthur Rosenfeld was born on June 22, 1926, in Birmingham, Ala. His father was an agronomist who studied sugar cane. The family lived through the beginnings of the Depression in New Orleans before moving to Egypt, where his father consulted on sugar-cane growing. His parents taught him to turn off the lights when leaving a room, and they both drove small cars, according to The Los Angeles Times.Dr. Rosenfeld was only 18 when he received a bachelor’s degree in industrial physics from Virginia Polytechnic Institute. He served in the Navy in World War II, spending two years teaching radar operators in Chicago.He studied physics at the University of Chicago under Enrico Fermi, the Nobel laureate who created the world’s first controlled nuclear chain reaction under an abandoned university football stadium. He received a Ph.D. in 1954.Dr. Rosenfeld’s research in energy efficiency led to an advisory role at the Department of Energy under President Bill Clinton. He also served on the California Energy Commission from 2000 to 2010.After retiring at 83, Dr. Rosenfeld traveled the country speaking about ways to cut energy use and heat in cities. He particularly endorsed the concept of “white roofs,” which reflect more sunlight than dark ones and thus are an easy way to save on air-conditioning costs.In 2006, President George W. Bush awarded Dr. Rosenfeld the Enrico Fermi Award, one of the nation’s top science honors. President Barack Obama presented him with the National Medal of Technology and Innovation in 2011.The year before, a group of scientists proposed a unit of measurement in his name. The “Rosenfeld,” they said, should refer to annual electricity savings of three billion kilowatt-hours — enough to eliminate the need for a coal plant.Last year, Dr. Rosenfeld received the Tang Prize, a recently established Taiwanese award sometimes referred to as Asia’s version of the Nobel.His wife of 53 years, Roselyn Bernheim Rosenfeld, known as Roz, died in 2009. Dr. Rosenfeld, who lived in Berkeley, is survived by two daughters, Dr. Margaret Rosenfeld and Dr. Anne Hansen; and six grandchildren.“Art Rosenfeld helped make California the world leader in energy efficiency,” Governor Brown said in a statement on Friday. “His pathbreaking ideas transformed our energy sector from one of massive waste to increasingly elegant efficiency. I will miss him.”
TORONTO — François Deschamps stepped out of his apartment building in the Limoilou neighborhood of Quebec City recently and stopped when he saw a sticker wrapped around a light pole.“Burn Your Local Mosque,” it read, around a silhouette of a Turkish-style mosque against an orange flame. He snapped a cellphone photo and added it to his collection of anti-Muslim propaganda popping up around the city.Canada is a remarkably open society, a legacy of liberal politicians who set the thinly populated country on the path of aggressive multiculturalism decades ago. Last week, Statistics Canada reported that by 2036, nearly half of all Canadians would be immigrants or the children of immigrants — most of them what the country calls “visible minorities,” which means nonwhite.That rapid transformation is stirring the most conservative elements of the white Canadian population, who see the country as their own, despite the fact that Europeans took the land from a patchwork of indigenous peoples who had long existed there.Few people believe that this stirring, which is moderate by United States standards, contributed directly the shooting Sunday inside Quebec City’s largest mosque, in which six worshipers were killed and eight injured. And no evidence yet has emerged that the accused assailant, a Québécois university student, had ties to specific groups. But the attack has put many on guard that Canada’s embrace of Muslim immigration is raising tensions. Even the most radical groups seem to sense that expressing extreme views can be dangerous.There are at least 100 right-wing extremist groups in Canada, according to two Canadian studies published last year, with most of them active in the provinces of Ontario, Quebec, Alberta and British Columbia.While their targets include gays and lesbians, Jews and other minorities, Muslims have faced a sizable amount of the hostility. In 2014, the last year for which statistics are available, Canadian police forces recorded 99 religiously motivated hate crimes against Muslims — up from 45 in 2012, according to Statistics Canada.Some critics have blamed Donald J. Trump’s nationalistic language, but right-wing extremism has long thrived in Canada among skinheads, white supremacists and others, said Barbara Perry, a global hate crime expert at the University of Ontario Institute of Technology in Oshawa, Ontario, and the lead author of a report published last year in the journal Studies in Conflict & Terrorism.“A lot of that sentiment has been there,” said Ms. Perry, who said the internet has helped spread the ideology.Canada has witnessed a flurry of nationalist groups proliferating in recent years, including the Soldiers of Odin, a white nationalist group that began in Finland. While the Canadian group has denied racist beliefs and members have participated in community foot patrols in cities like Edmonton and Vancouver, its main Canada Facebook page has anti-Muslim screeds and derogatory references to immigrants.The Canadian authorities have recorded thousands of hate-motivated crimes in recent years, but Ms. Perry said Canadian law enforcement officials have played down the threat of right-wing extremists, preferring instead to focus on Islamic terrorism. “That’s where all the money and attention goes,” she said. “Law enforcement officers in communities with a fairly well known right-wing presence, they either denied they were there or that it was an issue.”The Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the Canadian Security Intelligence Service declined to comment on actions they have taken to monitor and stop the spread of white nationalist groups, though the intelligence service has in the past minimized the movement’s influence, telling the Canadian news media that “right-wing extremist circles appear to be fragmented and primarily pose a threat to public order and not to national security.”Anti-racism activists and others opposed to such views say the government has not done enough to protect vulnerable groups. In 2013, Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s government repealed hate speech provisions in the Canadian Human Rights Act, which supporters said hindered free speech. A federal court ruled that the provisions did not violate freedom of expression, but they have not been reinstated.Daniel Gallant, a former white supremacist from Vancouver who changed his views 15 years ago and is now a social worker and a law student, said widespread Canadian denial about the prevalence of right-wing extremism was a major problem. “It’s everywhere,” he said.A 2016 telephone survey by the Canadian polling firm Forum Research found that in a random sampling of 1,304 Canadians, Muslims were the focus of the most animosity in Quebec, where 48 percent of respondents expressed dislike of the religion.“It is clear from these findings that respondents in Quebec are the most likely to hold unfavorable feelings towards Jewish and Muslim people,” said the firm’s president, Lorne Bozinoff.Nowhere have those elements been as vocal as Quebec City.Handbills, posters and occasional demonstrations by such groups as the Fédération des Québécois de Souche (which translates roughly as “people of original Québécois stock”) have proliferated in the city. Québécois de Souche’s slogan is “I exist, so I act,” but as with fringe movements everywhere, it and other groups are most active behind the anonymity of the internet.“It’s very hard to know their numbers,” said Stéphane Leman-Langlois, a sociology professor at Laval University who studies Quebec’s far right, adding that there is a small core to each group and that the followers are less active. He said the movement has fragmented and re-formed and groups have changed names for the past 20 years, although the recent surge in immigration has strengthened their cause. “It’s not a new thing,” he said.La Meute, a group that includes many Afghanistan war veterans, has gathered about 43,000 followers since it started a closed Facebook page last year. The name means “wolf pack” in French, and its members are not politically virulent by United States standards but focus on concerns about Muslim immigration.At the other end of the scale are followers of Légitime Violence, a proudly fascist heavy metal band that announces its concerts to a vetted list of fans and performs songs like “Final Solution,” which is as subtle as it sounds.Other extremist groups in Quebec include Atalante Québec; Pegida Québec, which is an offshoot of a German group; and Soldiers of Odin.Calling these groups “far right” may be a misnomer. The Fédération des Québécois de Souche says its members include people with different political beliefs, including socialists and libertarians. The common denominator is an opposition to immigration, particularly by Muslims.“Our objective is not to shrink to a minority,” said Rémi Tremblay, spokesman for the Fédération des Québécois de Souche. He says groups like his have helped to start a debate about immigration and multiculturalism that was “unthinkable” when the group formed 10 years ago. “We want to free the tongues of the people so they start thinking about this without the constraints of political correctness,” he said.That conversation among largely anonymous anti-immigration extremists exists in the broader context of a right-leaning talk radio culture in Quebec that has been critical of Muslim immigration and what it sees as a failure by Muslims to assimilate into Canadian culture. Talk radio of this stripe is rare elsewhere in Canada and is reminiscent, albeit far more mild, of the raucous right-wing shows in the United States.The radio stations Radio X and FM93 are among those cited as giving voice to anti-Muslim activists. While their own commentary may be muted, they give a platform to less-tolerant voices from sites like Point de Bascule, which means Tipping Point, and Poste de Veille, which translates roughly as “Watchtower” and whose website shows a pirate ship with a jihadist flag as its sail approaching Quebec City.One popular conspiracy theory links Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to the Muslim Brotherhood, a pan-Arab group that supports the application of Islamic law in Muslim communities.Even Quebec City’s mayor, Régis Labeaume, who was visibly moved at a news conference on Monday while showing support for the Muslim community, has expressed frustration with some orthodox Muslim customs.In 2014, during interviews about the appearance of the “burkini” at community pools, he recalled one extremely hot summer day seeing a man dressed in shorts and sandals while his wife was wearing a full niqab — head-to-toe covering including black gloves. Mayor Labeaume said his own wife had to hold him back from insulting the man and “ripping his head off.”Many people have called for toning down the talk in the wake of Sunday’s mosque shooting in a suburb of Quebec City by a professed immigration opponent.“The tone should definitely be more respectful on all sides,” said Dominic Maurais, who hosts a show on Radio X and is a leading voice of Quebec’s conservative talk shows. Mr. Maurais noted that he was pro-immigration.“However, we should all be careful about letting political correctness win over crucial, frank and essential discussions about radical Islam and Islamic values in our democracies,” he said in a telephone interview.The Fédération des Québécois de Souche and Atalante Québec issued a joint statement deploring the violence and calling the gunman deranged.
HONG KONG — You might call it a Noah’s Ark for an era of melting polar ice sheets.An audacious plan to respond to climate change by building a city of floating islands in the South Pacific is moving forward, with the government of French Polynesia agreeing to consider hosting the islands in a tropical lagoon.The project is being put forward by a California nonprofit, the Seasteading Institute, which has raised about $2.5 million from more than 1,000 interested donors. Randolph Hencken, the group’s executive director, said work on the project could start in French Polynesia as early as next year, pending the results of some environmental and economic feasibility studies.“We have a vision that we’re going to create an industry that provides floating islands to people who are threatened by rising sea levels,” Mr. Hencken said.The group’s original founders included Peter Thiel, a billionaire investor and prominent supporter of President Trump, although Mr. Thiel is no longer donating to the institute, Mr. Hencken said.Mr. Hencken said that the project’s pilot islands would cost a total of $10 million to $50 million and house a few dozen people and that the initial residents would most likely be middle-income buyers from the developed world. He added that the institute was seeking to build the islands in what would be a nautical version of a special economic zone and that it would showcase innovations in solar power, sustainable aquaculture and ocean-based wind farms.The project’s leaders face many hurdles, such as building waste-management systems for the islands and convincing investors to buy property in such an untested environment. Joe Quirk, a spokesman for the Seasteading Institute, said in a 2014 video that the cost of housing on the artificial islands would initially be on par with real estate in London or New York City.But the project also appears to show how the acceleration of climate change has prompted technology entrepreneurs to devise innovative solutions to climate-related problems such as rising sea levels.“The oceans are the most ignored part of the planet, so I’m excited by the possibilities which will emerge when you get some of Silicon Valley’s more adventurous souls focusing on the sustainable use of our coastal and marine areas,” Lelei LeLaulu, a development entrepreneur from Samoa who specializes in the Pacific islands and advises the International Finance Corporation on sustainable business, said in an email from French Polynesia.But the project has critics in French Polynesia and beyond.Alexandre Le Quéré, a radio host at the station Polynésie 1ère, said this month that the Seasteading Institute’s project reminded him of a plan to build artificial islands off the Indonesian resort island of Bali that has drawn heavy criticism amid concern over its projected environmental effects.“One might think the engineers behind Seasteading have responses to these ecological questions,” Mr. Le Quéré said. “Nevertheless it doesn’t stop skepticism about this slightly crazy project.”Mr. Hencken said that he expected the project to eventually include dozens of artificial islands and that similar projects could eventually be built in other atoll nations or coastal areas threatened by rising sea levels. He added that the cost of housing on the islands would decrease as the so-called island platforms became cheaper to manufacture.“I certainly don’t think this is a project that is exclusively for the wealthy,” he said, adding that his background was in social justice activism.But experts familiar with climate change and the South Pacific said they doubted the project would be feasible on a wide scale in a region with some of the world’s poorest countries. They also wondered whether the money could be better spent on education or health care.“I wouldn’t write it off entirely; I just come to these things with a healthy skepticism,” said Matthew Dornan, the deputy director of the Development Policy Center at Australian National University in Canberra.“There is a tendency for very technologically focused solutions to the challenges in the Pacific without any real input from the Pacific islanders themselves,” he added.Simon Donner, a geography professor at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver who studies the effects of climate change in the Pacific islands, said that the French Polynesia project looked intriguing and that he had no reason to doubt that its backers were well-intentioned.But he said the project reflected a cruel reality: The developed world is both responsible for climate change and better able to cope with it.The French Polynesia project would effectively be a “cruise ship,” Mr. Donner said. “Meanwhile, the other actual islands in the Pacific are stuck with the impacts of climate change.”Mr. Hencken disputed that assessment, saying it was unfair to compare his initiative with traditional aid projects.“We’re not taking French Polynesia’s money,” he said. “We’re investing our own money with the hopes of making a direct and indirect benefit to our host.”The French Foreign Ministry did not respond to an emailed request for comment on the Seasteading Institute’s plan.Recent climate models predict that the world’s oceans could rise five to six feet by 2100, roughly twice the increase reported as a plausible worst-case scenario by a United Nations panel in 2013.Atoll nations in the Pacific are seen as uniquely vulnerable to sea level rise because they are often low-lying and extremely narrow. One of them, Kiribati, has become an unofficial champion of a movement to call global attention to the threat.In an interview with The New York Times last year, Kiribati’s president at the time, Anote Tong, said that he had commissioned experts from the government of the United Arab Emirates to study the feasibility of artificially raising Kiribati’s islands as a climate adaptation strategy. But he declined to provide specifics, and subsequent attempts to reach officials in Kiribati and the United Arab Emirates for details were unsuccessful.Koen Olthuis, an architect in the Netherlands whose projects are entirely water-based, said that interest in amphibious construction among developers and municipalities had surged worldwide in the last four years and that floating projects could potentially have an enormous range of beneficial social uses. An early example, he said, is a floating school he designed recently for Bangladesh, where sea level rise threatens low-lying coastal communities.Mr. Olthuis said that the technical challenges of artificial island construction could be resolved and that he hoped the French Polynesia project would succeed. But it was still an open question, he added, what the ultimate goal or scale of such projects should be.“What do we want to save? How much money do we want to spend on it, and what does it bring for those people?” he said. “With billions, you can save 300,000 people. But you can also take them away and put them in other countries and use those buildings to help people in slums worldwide.”
WASHINGTON — Senator Bob Casey of Pennsylvania left the Philadelphia Orchestra’s 160th annual Academy of Music Concert and Ball and rushed to Philadelphia’s airport, still clad in white tie and tails.Senators Cory Booker of New Jersey and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts tore up their schedules to shout their way through impromptu speeches in airport concourses thronged with protesters.And some of those vying to lead the Democratic National Committee, sensing where the energy of the party was, made a beeline for Houston’s airport on Saturday night after appearing at yet another desultory candidate forum at yet another hotel.Legislators facing re-election next year, potential presidential candidates and would-be leaders of the party all scrambled this weekend to give voice to the fury over President Trump’s executive order temporarily barring refugees and some other migrants from coming to the United States. They had little choice.The swelling anger over Mr. Trump’s week-old administration is fueling a surge of spontaneous activism that some Democrats say they have not seen since the Vietnam War. The growing and seemingly organic energy offers Democrats a prime opportunity to ride a backlash to electoral success this year and next, the same way Republicans capitalized on Tea Party rage against President Barack Obama in 2010.But the fury is also spurring liberal voters to demand uncompromising confrontation and resistance from their elected officials to a president they believe poses an existential threat to the country. The Democrats’ increasingly assertive base wants the party’s leaders to eschew any cooperation with Mr. Trump: They are already expressing rage at some senators for confirming the president’s cabinet appointees, and for their willingness to allow a vote on his pick for a vacant Supreme Court seat.Addressing activists on Sunday at a rally in Lower Manhattan, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, shed tears as he lamented Mr. Trump’s refugee ban as an affront to democracy and pluralism. Later, he was met with chants of “vote down his nominees!” and a scattering of hecklers shouting “vote Schumer out.”“The Tea Party didn’t really become a force until it started ousting Republicans it didn’t feel represented them. That’s clearly going to have to happen here,” said Markos Moulitsas, the progressive activist who founded the Daily Kos website. “Democrats either need to feed, nurture and aggressively champion the resistance, or they need to get out of the way in favor of someone who will. The usual rules no longer apply.”Some party elites are clearly getting the message. Mr. Schumer and Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, hastily scheduled a Monday rally for House and Senate Democrats on the steps of the Supreme Court.The rush of Democratic governors and senators, both moderates and progressives, to airports this weekend also showed that they recognized that the outpouring of protesters for the women’s marches on inauguration weekend was only the start of a new movement.“I think the key for the Democratic Party is to show to a very powerful and dynamic coalition that we are hearing them and connecting to their issues,” said former Representative Tom Perriello, who made a surprise entry into the Virginia governor’s race after Mr. Trump’s election and drove to Dulles International Airport from Richmond, Va., on Saturday to join the protests.The demands for purity from Democratic leaders are likely to grow only more unequivocal, and standing in solidarity with sign-waving protesters may prove insufficient. A rising chorus of liberals is pressuring senators to filibuster Mr. Trump’s selection for the Supreme Court, which he has said he will announce this week.“When it comes to the Supreme Court, eight is enough,” said Representative Keith Ellison, a Minnesota Democrat who is one of the top contenders to be the chairman of the Democratic National Committee. “They literally stole a Supreme Court justice from President Obama, so I see no reason why we should facilitate them putting in some right-wing extremist.”But some Democratic senators, including those facing re-election next year, are uneasy about forming a blockade against Mr. Trump’s pick, as Senate Republicans did last year against Mr. Obama’s nominee, Judge Merrick B. Garland. Doing so could be fruitless, anyway. Mr. Trump has already encouraged Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, to ram through new Senate rules that would allow a Supreme Court pick to be seated with a simple majority of 51 votes — the same rules change Democrats engineered in 2013 to end filibusters of virtually every presidential appointment besides a Supreme Court justice.“I believe we must fulfill our constitutional responsibility to have a hearing and a vote,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, a member of the Judiciary Committee, while urging Mr. Trump to choose a nominee “in the mainstream.”Ms. Klobuchar, who stood on Sunday with members of her state’s large Somali population, said she was not concerned that the party’s base would turn on its elected officials.“As a whole, the 48 Democratic senators share their anger and passion and will pull the emergency brake on such things as the executive order, but also some compromise if there are areas we can find common-sense agreements,” she said.In truth, fissures are already emerging among Senate Democrats. Some of the newer senators, including those who may be eyeing the presidency, are taking a more confrontational line. Senator Kamala D. Harris of California, who was elected last year, opposed the confirmations of Gen. John F. Kelly as secretary of homeland security and former Representative Mike Pompeo of Kansas as Central Intelligence Agency director. The senior senator from her state, Dianne Feinstein, who was first elected in 1992, supported them both.Even some of the Democrats most beloved by the left are proving vulnerable to increasingly pointed criticism about their handling of Mr. Trump. Ms. Warren faced searing anger from liberals last week over her willingness to vote for the confirmation of Ben Carson, the neurosurgeon and former Republican presidential candidate, for secretary of housing and urban development. Some activists at the national committee’s meeting shouted that she had “sold us out” when her name was mentioned.Ms. Warren was forced to write a Facebook post explaining her vote that began, “OK, let’s talk about Dr. Ben Carson.”The scale and ferocity of the anger coming out of the Democratic base has astounded even some party veterans.“There is much more energy opposing Trump than there ever was in reaction to George W. Bush and the Iraq War,” said Paul Begala, a longtime Democratic strategist. “I have never seen so much spontaneous grass-roots energy on the left.”Elected Democrats have sought to harness the anger, with even some of the more mild-mannered lawmakers intensifying their rhetoric. But when Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia, the Democrats’ vice-presidential nominee last year, warned Sunday on Twitter, “If we turn our backs on widows and orphans fleeing the very evil we despise, we do not defeat our enemies; we surrender to them,” the greeting from Democrats was not all sweetness and warmth.“Tim, this is great,” former Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont responded on Twitter, “but the Dems in the Senate actually have to do something about this stuff. You are being left behind by your base.”
NEWARK — The Devils entered the four-day N.H.L. All-Star break in 16th and last place in the Eastern Conference, after a 5-2 loss on Thursday to the Washington Capitals that ended with a top scorer, Kyle Palmieri, out of the game and charged with three penalties.Neither the Devils’ standing nor Palmieri’s trouble is quite as bad as it sounds. Palmieri had fought in defense of a teammate headed to the All-Star Game, forward Taylor Hall, and he was saluted by his coach and teammates for the deed. And the Devils (20-21-9) are one of four teams with 49 points, only 7 behind the Philadelphia Flyers, who are positioned for a wild-card playoff berth.The Devils have played only 22 of their 50 games at Prudential Center. They will have nine of their 11 games in February at home. (Their league-mandated five-day “bye week” will be Feb. 7-11.) The Devils won eight of their first 10 games in Newark, but have lost six straight since then.“Obviously, we’re not where we want to be,” Devils goaltender Cory Schneider said. “The way we started this year, I think we had pretty lofty aspirations. I still believe we have a team that can play well and win games.”Schneider added, “It’s going to be a tough task, but hopefully, we can come together after the break and play better at home.”During the off-season, the Devils acquired Hall from Edmonton, then re-signed Palmieri to a five-year contract after a 30-goal season, in an effort to fortify their attack. Hall was hurt and has 11 goals in 40 games; Palmieri started slowly and has 11 goals in 48 games.As a result, the Devils are 28th among the 30 N.H.L. teams with a paltry 2.2 goals per game.Schneider is also not playing up to last season’s form. He has given up a half-goal more per game, and his save percentage has dropped to .910 from .924.“There’s still a lot of hockey to be played, and we have a very resilient group in here,” defenseman Jon Merrill said. “We’re not going to go anywhere. We’re going to keep pushing every night to get wins, put a streak together and climb up that ladder.”John Hynes, the Devils’ second-year coach, has been encouraged because the Devils grabbed 7 of 8 points on a four-game trip earlier this month after, as he said, “we were supposed to be down and out of it.”But they lost their last two home games. Keith Kinkaid replaced Schneider in goal after the first period of the Devils’ 3-1 loss Tuesday to Los Angeles. Schneider then replaced Kinkaid midway through the loss to Washington.Boosting the offense is still the top priority. Adam Henrique, the center who scored 30 goals last season, shares the team lead this season with P. A. Parenteau, at 12 goals, putting them in a 21-player tie for 83rd place in the N.H.L. (Sidney Crosby leads the league with 28 goals.)“The next step is that we have to continue to be a much harder team in the offensive zone with pucks,” Hynes said. “Spending time there, getting net-front traffic, having opportunities, getting shots through.”The Devils are also 28th in power-play percentage, at 14.3 percent; a year ago, they were ninth, at 19.9 percent. At the same time, they have slid to 16th from eighth in killing penalties, and they are dead last in killing penalties at home.After the loss to Washington, Merrill said, “It’s something we addressed before the game, but we weren’t able to get the job done.”But the good news for the Devils is that the bottom of the Eastern Conference is a traffic jam of inconsistent teams. Only 3 points separate the Devils from the 10th-place team in the conference, the Florida Panthers. The grind will be lighter for them soon.“I don’t think there’s any panic or any of that kind of feeling in the room, but we understand what the situation is,” Schneider said. “It’s hard to move up in the standings. It’s hard to jump teams, especially now that the season is shorter.”Schneider went on: “We have to do something about it and put ourselves in the conversation. The push is coming here, so every team’s going to be sprinting for the finish. It’s not going to get any easier. It’s going to get harder.”
TIJUANA, Mexico — Even before President Trump decided to build the wall, this Mexican border city was already overwhelmed.So many Haitian migrants, traveling across the Americas, began arriving here last year with hopes of crossing into the United States that churches, community halls, after-school programs, rehabilitation centers and private citizens have opened their doors to house, feed and clothe them.In one shelter, about 250 migrants — men, women and children — share two toilets and one shower. Four hundred are crammed into a church. A soup kitchen sleeps hundreds in hallways, a pantry and a lot out back.Now, some officials and advocates worry that Mr. Trump’s plan could spur immigration crises in towns and cities all along the border and, indeed, throughout Mexico.The Mexican government, they say, may not be able to handle it.Mr. Trump is seeking to tighten the border, restrict immigration and increase deportations from the United States. In announcing his actions this week, the president said they would “help Mexico by deterring illegal immigration.”“Going to be very, very good for Mexico,” he declared.Yet some international officials and advocates envision a potential nightmare for the country.A growing number of people have been streaming north from Central America, fleeing violence and poverty in their homelands. Nearly 409,000 were caught trying to cross the southwestern border of the United States illegally in the 2016 fiscal year, a 23 percent increase over the previous fiscal year, according to American government statistics. And the trend has continued over the past few months.As more migrants are blocked at the American border and more undocumented immigrants are deported from the United States, border communities in Mexico could be overwhelmed, migrant shelters could overflow, the ranks of the unemployed could swell, and Mexico will bear the strain, officials and advocates say.“It’s worrying us,” said Christopher Gascon, chief of the Mexico office for the International Organization for Migration. “How Mexico can handle that is going to be a whole new area of concern. I don’t think the absorptive capacity is there.”Even before this week, Mexico was facing extraordinary migration pressures. The waves of Central Americans heading north were severely testing Mexico’s border patrol in the south of the country and led to a sharp increase in the number of people applying for asylum in Mexico, with applications more than doubling from 2015 to 2016.Mexican officials were also scrambling to develop a strategy in case Mr. Trump made good on his promises to increase deportations of undocumented immigrants, a population that includes millions of Mexicans. An intergovernmental group began on Monday to study ways to help integrate deportees into Mexican society.Beyond that, recent changes in American policy during the Obama administration had already contributed to the surge in Haitian migrants, as well as to a separate wave of Cuban migrants. Thousands of Cubans found themselves stranded in Mexico and Central America this month after the Obama administration ended a longstanding policy that favored Cubans.Under American pressure, President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico had been trying to stanch the flow of migrants heading through his country, starting the Southern Border Program in 2014 in an attempt to control the movement of people and goods crossing the border with Guatemala. The plan contributed to a doubling of deportations between 2013, before it was enacted, and 2016. Nearly all the deportees in recent years have been from Central America.But the country’s borders remain highly porous. The International Organization for Migration estimates that between 400,000 and 500,000 undocumented migrants transit through the country every year, about 90 percent of them Central Americans.Here in the state of Baja California, the migrant crisis has highlighted the Mexican government’s limited capacity to deal with the challenges.Haitian migrants, traveling from Brazil, began arriving in this border city last spring. For a while, the Haitians had little trouble crossing into the United States. In recognition of the troubles in Haiti following the 2010 earthquake there, American border officials allowed undocumented Haitians to enter under a humanitarian parole provision, with permission to stay for as long as three years.The migrants filled the handful of longstanding migrant shelters and cheap hotels in Tijuana while they waited, often for weeks, for their appointments with American border officials.Then in late September, the Obama administration suddenly announced that it was fully resuming the deportations of Haitians, hoping the policy change would dissuade more Haitians from migrating. Still, the Haitians kept coming.As the Haitian migrant population has ballooned — there are now about 4,500 Haitians in Tijuana and elsewhere in northern Baja California — the Mexican authorities have resisted pleas to open a government-run emergency shelter.More than 30 shelters are providing for the Haitians, yet none are government-run. Most of the burden of sheltering, feeding, clothing and caring for the nonstop stream of Haitians has fallen to civil society groups and individuals, who have accused the government of doing too little too late.This month, a coalition of the main shelters in Tijuana and Mexicali sent a letter to Mr. Peña Nieto demanding a more robust federal “intervention” to address the crisis. The shelters have yet to receive a reply, they said.Advocacy and humanitarian groups in Tijuana filed a complaint this week with the National Human Rights Commission alleging that federal officials had violated the migrants’ human rights “in a widespread and repeated manner” by failing to address the crisis.Federal officials have rejected the criticism that they have been neglectful.“Is there room to do more? Yes,” Rodulfo Figueroa Pacheco, chief of the Baja California office of the federal migration agency, said in an interview last week, before the complaint was filed. “It’s been a struggle.”“But,” he added, “it isn’t true that the governments have been unresponsive.”The crisis, now in its ninth month, has been a crushing burden on the shelters.The migrant population at one longstanding shelter, Movimiento Juventud 2000, with capacity for about 25 people, soared to about 250, many of them living in donated tents in an adjoining lot that becomes a swale of mud when it rains.Iglesia Cristiana Embajadores de Jesus, a church situated in a denuded ravine on the western edge of Tijuana, was sheltering hundreds of people even though it was not connected to the municipal water supply and had to refill its tanks with a water truck.Administrators at Desayunador Salesiano Padre Chava, which had for years served as a soup kitchen, repurposed nearly the entire building, including corridors and the pantry, into a sprawling dormitory that at one point housed more than 500 people.Claudia Portela, coordinator of Padre Chava, which recently opened a smaller second shelter, estimates that donations have provided for 98 percent of their needs during the crisis.Government officials, while acknowledging that the bulk of the humanitarian assistance has come from civil society, insist that they have provided crucial services but have been sorely limited by budgets that were already under strain amid Mexico’s economic malaise.“Our deployment has been very, very small,” Mr. Figueroa said. “Institutional capacities are not as robust as we’d like.” But despite the limitations, he said, government agencies had donated more than $280,000, about 445,000 meals, thousands of blankets, hundreds of mattresses and many other goods and services since late October.State and federal officials, he said, were still discussing the possibility of opening a shelter, but the proposal raised difficult practical and philosophical questions.“Will we be building something we can’t unbuild?” he said.Ad hoc networks of humanitarian groups have scrambled to help.“For me, the worst part is the omission of the federal government,” said Soraya Vazquez, one of nine women who run the Comité Estratégico de Ayuda Humanitaria Tijuana, a local group formed in September. “The government has to recognize it as a humanitarian crisis.”On a recent morning, she and her colleague, Adriana Reyna, jumped into Ms. Reyna’s sport utility vehicle and took a tour of several shelters in Tijuana to assess their needs.At Iglesia Cristiana Embajadores de Jesus, the church in the ravine, a 1½-year-old Haitian girl had fallen. Her parents worried she had fractured a bone. So the women drove the child and her father to a nearby clinic where they arranged for a free evaluation, then swung by a pharmacy to pick up some medicine to treat the pain and swelling.At another shelter, the women lined up doctor’s appointments for a man with an infected leg wound and for two migrants who were experiencing complications with their pregnancies. They also strategized about setting up a piñata workshop that would give migrants employment.A message arrived, saying that an art-house cinema had about 30 pillows to donate. With a phone call, the women found a taker: a shelter in central Tijuana.At Iglesia Central del Nazareno, which had been converted into a shelter, the coordinator asked the women whether they had heard anything new about how Haitian migrants were being received at the United States border. Were they being deported?It was the day after Mr. Trump’s inauguration, and rumors were flying.“I hope they’ll all be able to cross. I hope they’ll be O.K.,” said the coordinator, Ruth Gaxiola, fighting back tears. She looked exhausted. Ms. Vazquez opened her arms, and the women embraced.
Chuck Close and other artists used to sit around bars like the Cedar Tavern and Max’s Kansas City and talk about art. “I have more conversations today over what we’re going to do to protect our spouses, our children, our work,” Mr. Close said.At 77, Mr. Close is among a critical mass of prominent — and profitable — artists in their twilight years (including Claes Oldenburg, 88; Ed Ruscha, 79; and Gerhard Richter, 84) facing important decisions about how to secure their creations and provide for their heirs just as the exploding market has significantly increased the value of their work. And the art world hopes to cash in on it.“You have the greatest number of artists there has ever been who are wealthy from their own creative work and have to make provisions for the posthumous stewardship of that work,” said Christine J. Vincent, the project director for the Artist-Endowed Foundations Initiative at the Aspen Institute, which helps private foundations created by visual artists. “More and more entities are getting involved in servicing it.”Sotheby’s just hired Christy MacLear, the chief executive of the Robert Rauschenberg Foundation, in an attempt to start managing artists’ careers, estates and foundations, a role historically played by galleries.And dealers, for their part, have stepped up their efforts to hold on to aging artists they represent — or to lure them away from competitors.Brice Marden, 78, for example, just announced that after more than 20 years with Matthew Marks, he was leaving for Larry Gagosian. William Eggleston, 77, left Gagosian for David Zwirner in June. And while Mr. Richter has long been with Marian Goodman — herself now 88 — that doesn’t mean he couldn’t eventually move his holdings to another gallery or an auction house, although Ms. Goodman said that Mr. Richter had resisted many such overtures over the years.“I’ve been moved that he’s been so loyal,” she said. “He seems to be happy where he is.” (Mr. Richter declined to comment.)The potential revenues in managing artists can be substantial in fees for services, in sales and in business worth hundreds of millions of dollars; the Cy Twombly Foundation, for example, has assets of $1.5 billion. Handling artists not only allows for control of their remaining unsold work, but it also offers access to their catalogues raisonnés, a thorough accounting of every piece by the artists and who owns them — which can lead to future sales.“This is a field that’s growing fivefold,” Ms. MacLear said, with “people considering what their legacy is.” Those on her potential wish list: Frank Stella, 80; John Baldessari, 85; and baby boomers like Eric Fischl, 68.“How hard it is to contemplate your own death,” Mr. Fischl mused in an interview. “There’s taxation, and whether it’s better to keep the art and sell it off a little at a time or to try to sell it off before you die and put the money in a foundation — it’s hugely complicated. I find it incredibly daunting.” He said that his own galleries have not navigated such terrain.Amy Cappellazzo, a chairwoman at Sotheby’s, said the effort to manage artists was part of the company’s continuing effort to transform itself into a full-service operation. “We’re not an auction house,” she said. “We’re an art business.”Christie’s has yet to develop a similar venture, though Jonathan Laib, a 17-year veteran of that auction house, successfully reintroduced the artist Ruth Asawa to buyers before she died in 2013 and handled her estate afterward.“We were able to transform her market,” Mr. Laib said, using “auction as well as private sale to help get the images out there and spread the word about her.”Mr. Laib recently left Christie’s for the David Zwirner gallery — bringing the Asawa estate with him — partly because he said that he saw greater possibilities for an artist in a gallery context.“What we were able to do through Christie’s, I don’t know if that can be replicated for every artist,” he said.Several art experts point out that efforts to merge the skill sets of galleries and auction houses have failed in the past, namely the 50 percent interest Sotheby’s bought in the gallery Deitch Projects in 1997, and its purchase of the André Emmerich Gallery in 1996, as well as Christie’s acquisition of the gallery Haunch of Venison in 2007.Auction houses are not permitted to show at art fairs, which leaves today’s largest transactional arena off limits. And many dealers say auction houses will not be able to serve artists and their legacies the way galleries do. “Their interest is selling,” said Arne Glimcher, the chairman of Pace, which represents living artists such as Mr. Close and Kiki Smith. “Making money is a long-range process with us.”The care and feeding of artists, dealers say, is also a high-maintenance job. “Living artists have enormous personal needs,” Mr. Glimcher said. “There are constant conversations. We’re a daily support system.”In one extreme example, Mr. Glimcher said, the artist Jim Dine sent Pace his shirts to be cleaned: “You think Sotheby’s is going to do that?”Even Brett Gorvy, who just left Christie’s after 23 years to join forces with the dealer Dominique Lévy — this year Ms. Levy took on the painter Pat Steir, 74, and the Korean sculptor Lee Seung-taek, 84 — said that what galleries do for artists cannot be replicated by an auction house.“Auction houses are going to find it difficult to compete with dealers, whose whole apparatus is looking after artists and artists’ estates,” he said. “The artist wants a sense of independence more than anything else and doesn’t want to be a corporate soul.”Sotheby’s executives disagree, saying that galleries are not necessarily well equipped for the long-term planning required by today’s successful artists, whose holdings can include land, or foundations that give philanthropic grants.“Dealers’ first calling is to sell the work by artists,” Ms. Cappellazzo said. “They don’t often get involved in matters of legacy or wishes of the heirs.”Allan Schwartzman, Ms. Cappellazzo’s partner in the art advisory service that Sotheby’s acquired last year, said many artists had not “stepped back and looked at the big picture: ‘Do my papers matter to me, or do I want to keep them private? Is it meaningful to me to have a core group of works in the major museum in my hometown?’ Or, ‘I have 12 children from various marriages, and I really want to be able to set each of them up.’”But many artists consider auction houses the enemy, because they can inflate prices and hurt an artist’s reputation if something fails to sell.“The last thing I want messing around with my career is an auction house,” Mr. Close said. “That might be the worst thing for the artist.”This new model also raises ethical questions: Couldn’t the auction house show preferential treatment to its artists by putting them on catalog covers, for example, to increase their value, and by steering an artist’s work into auction sales, rather than into prestigious museum collections?“There is the inherent conflict of interest,” said Edward Dolman, the chairman and chief executive of Phillips auction house, which is not pursuing artist management. The auction house’s “emphasis is to make sales,” he added, “which may not be in the interest of the artist or the artist’s estate.”Mr. Dolman also questioned why an artist would enter into an exclusive arrangement with any one house. “The great advantage of the market is to play Christie’s and Sotheby’s and Phillips off against each other,” he said. “Why would you bind yourself to one auction house for advice you can get for free, anyway?”
MELBOURNE, Australia — When it comes to Grand Slam singles titles in any era, only Margaret Court remains ahead of Serena Williams, and the gap has now been reduced to one.Williams has 23 and is showing no signs of calling it a career. Court, a powerful and attacking Australian, won 24 from 1960 to 1973 and seemed well aware when we spoke here last week that she would probably not be the leader for long.“If she beats my record, she deserves it,” Court said. “I’m not going to lose any sleep over it.”She also knows that neither Williams nor anyone else is closing in on her most remarkable record: 62 Grand Slam titles in singles, doubles and mixed.“Nobody will ever hit my 62,” she said.That is not a bad prediction considering how dominant Court once was and how few players still compete in all three events at every Grand Slam tournament. But perhaps it is wise for Court not to give Williams any additional targets. Williams, who has a combined 39 major titles for the moment, has become a voracious history-maker at an age when Court and most of her contemporaries had already retired.At 35, Williams romped to her seventh Australian Open singles title without losing a set. Court was a frequent observer from the front row.“The men, I enjoy,” Court said of the modern game. “The women, I don’t enjoy so much, because it’s up and down the center the whole time. I think it’s boring.”As for Williams in particular?“I think her serve gets her through,” Court said. “She’s got a wonderful serve. I think if that’s not working, then she gets wobbly.”Never afraid to rush the net during a career in which she defeated the likes of Maria Bueno and Billie Jean King, Court, now 74, remains unafraid to speak her mind. Despite the show court at the Australian Open that bears her name, she is in many respects a marginalized figure in women’s tennis. Her phenomenal on-court achievements — she completed a calendar-year Grand Slam in 1970 — and her pioneering approaches to intense physical training and to competing after motherhood are underappreciated for a cocktail of reasons.Her career straddled the amateur and Open eras, and the emphasis today is increasingly on Open-era achievement. She was never No. 1 in the WTA computer rankings, which began in November 1975, when Court was playing little and edging toward retirement.Eleven of Court’s 24 Grand Slam singles titles came at the Australian Championships, where the fields were predominantly or exclusively Australian in her earliest years and the draws were sometimes as small as 32 players.There is also the delicate matter of Court’s social views. A senior pastor at the Victory Life Center, a church in Perth, she is outspoken in her opposition to homosexuality, which has driven a wedge between herself and the WTA Tour. Two of its most iconic past champions, Martina Navratilova and King, are openly gay.Court first broached the issue in our interview after I brought up her challenging childhood with a hard-drinking father and the adult depression that set her on a path to becoming a pastor.“You have gone through a lot in your life,” I said.“I still do,” she said. “You stand with values for family and different things, so you are a voice, and then you get persecuted for that. You are not hating the people. You love the people, but you get taken that way. And I say marriage is between a man and a woman.“I know it’s changed, the laws in your nation,” she added, referring to the United States and the legalization of gay marriage. “But it hasn’t changed. I’ve got nothing against people, but they’ve now portrayed that you hate them. You don’t really, but you are just trying to protect family from a biblical side, you see.”Court said she believed homosexuality was in many cases “a choice.” She said she was opposed to changes in the way gender identity was being approached in formal education.“Why impact all these young ones coming through in schools?” she said. “They are given all this material to say, ‘Are you a boy? Or are you a girl? You can be either.’”In Court’s opinion, “they are born either a girl or a boy, and they should know that.”Well aware that her views continue to make her a champion non grata in some circles, Court said she believed she deserved a wider forum in the sport she once dominated.“I go and talk to schools, and I talk to children, but particularly the tennis circuit is too scared to have me speak because they think you are going to perhaps go and evangelize,” she said. “I mean, I’m not that silly.”She is correct that tennis officials are concerned about handing her the microphone for fear of it becoming a megaphone. But her playing career and her opinions will be back in the spotlight as Williams chases No. 24 at the French Open, which begins in May.Williams already holds the Open-era record for Grand Slam singles titles. Her victory in Melbourne gave her one more than Steffi Graf’s 22.“With all the respect to Margaret Court, it’s another era,” Patrick Mouratoglou, Williams’s coach, said. “Of course the record is there, and we definitely want to beat it, but there is a professional era, and the record was Steffi Graf.”To be fair, Court did win 11 of her major singles titles and complete her Grand Slam in the Open era, which began in 1968. But Williams was asked on Saturday night, after her latest major victory, whether she put a mental asterisk next to records like Court’s.“Well, yeah, it’s definitely different now — you know, 128 in every one that I played,” Williams said, referring to draw sizes. “But at the same time, Margaret did her thing. She won here, what, nine times?”Thirteen, a reporter answered, although the correct number was 11.“Oh, my gosh,” Williams said. “Wow. That’s crazy. But, yeah, she definitely deserves her credit for her hard work. I do, too, and Steffi does, and Chris and Martina do. Different eras. Different types and different people. I would’ve been good if I played in that era.”Court did not dispute that view, but pointed out that Williams would have been limited by equipment like wood rackets.“You would not have got the power off the ground,” Court said. “Because, I mean, I did a lot of weights, and I was strong, and I hit the ball hard. But you wouldn’t have got the power.”But Court — the same height as Williams at 5-foot-9 — was an intimidating, often unstoppable force in her day. Born Margaret Smith, she picked up the game on her own at age 8 in Albury, a city on the Murray River in New South Wales. She started by using a fence picket to hit scavenged balls against a garage.In an autobiography published last year, Court wrote that she would later sneak onto the local courts with friends through a hole in a fence. Her prodigious talent was eventually recognized, even though she chose to play with her nondominant right hand and never switched back to her left.She moved to Melbourne and was 17 when she won her first Australian singles title in 1960, upsetting Bueno, the elegant Brazilian and No. 1 seed, in the quarterfinals. Court emerged in the golden age of Australian tennis and was mentored by champions like Frank Sedgman. Although she clashed with Australian tennis officials, she achieved her goal of becoming the first Australian woman to win Wimbledon, in 1963.Navratilova is credited with transforming the women’s game with her intense physical training, but Court did much the same in her era, often training alongside men. She later traveled on tour with her husband, Barry Court, whom she married in 1967, and then with Danny, the first of their four children, during the 1973 season.Court said she “won 24 out of 25 tournaments” that year, faltering only at Wimbledon. That was the same season she agreed to face 55-year-old Bobby Riggs, the self-proclaimed “male chauvinist pig,” who routed her in straight sets in Ramona, Calif., in May in the so-called Mother’s Day Massacre.Her loss set the stage for Riggs’s “Battle of the Sexes” match with King four months later in the Houston Astrodome.“It was probably a mistake in my life; it looked rosy at the time,” Court said of her own match with Riggs, which she said she had lost because she failed to prepare for it seriously enough and then froze.King, her longtime rival, did not make the same mistake, defeating Riggs in front of an estimated worldwide television audience of 90 million and becoming even more of a cultural icon.While King remained an essential figure on the WTA Tour, which she helped found shortly before the Riggs match, Court kept her distance, returning to Australia and raising her children, farming and coping with depression.“It was the Scriptures that changed my life around,” she said. “It was like the shipwrecked ship was put back together again, and you found that life was really worth living. I only wish I had known some of the stuff I know now about the mind when I was playing. A few finals where I was down, I wouldn’t have let go. I would have won a few more.”Still, no one has won more, at least for a little while longer.
HONG KONG — Hong Kong’s Lunar New Year fairs draw thousands of visitors who stroll past stalls of potted narcissus, snack on fish balls and snap up the latest plush toys. In recent years, the largest of the fairs, at Victoria Park, has also become a prime site for political expression.Two years ago, after street protests failed to achieve greater public participation in the selection of the leader of Hong Kong, a semiautonomous Chinese territory, some holiday stalls offered clothing and other items carrying pointed messages of resistance. This year — before the March election of the leader in which the outcome will, as usual, be decided by pro-Beijing loyalists voting on a short list of vetted candidates — defiance appears to have given way to indignant resignation.“I feel so helpless that as a Hong Konger, as a citizen, I don’t even have a vote,” said Priscilla Pang, a 22-year-old student, frowning at a wheel of fortune featuring the faces of several potential candidates for the leader, or chief executive. Given a choice, she would pick none of them, she said. “We’re like chickens having food forced down their throats. There’s no use fighting.”The wheel of fortune was set up by the pro-democracy Civic Party to highlight the closed nature of the election, said Alvin Yeung, the party leader and a legislator.“Most of the Hong Kong people who came and played the wheel, they don’t have the right to vote,” Mr. Yeung said. “We allow people to take their turn and see who will be the one, but at the end of the day our message is, ‘None of them are your real choice because this election is not a genuine election.’”Nearby, a stall run by the Democratic Party was selling a modified version of Fish, Prawn, Crab, a Chinese game of chance. It, too, featured the expected candidates, with the winners determined by a roll of the dice. The point was that whichever candidate won, it was from the same restricted pool.“Most people here will not be able to participate whatsoever,” said Helena Wong, a member of the Democratic Party, as she finished a “fai chun’’ — good wishes written in Chinese calligraphy on red paper — for display. “They can at most have fun playing the game.”The declared candidates include three former government officials and a retired judge. All except the former judge, who is given little chance of winning, have embraced the strict framework the Chinese government imposed in 2014 for changes to Hong Kong’s election rules. It allowed the chief executive to be elected, for the first time, by a popular vote. But the list of candidates would still be chosen by a pro-Beijing committee. It was that decision that led to the months of protests in Hong Kong, later known as the Umbrella Movement, calling for “genuine” universal suffrage.Some leaders of the 2014 protests went on to win seats on the Legislative Council, Hong Kong’s 70-member legislature, but a sense of gloom was evident along the political aisle at the weeklong fair, where pro-democracy parties were calling for donations to fight a government-initiated legal challenge to their members’ qualifications to take office.“Nathan Law could be stripped of his Legislative Council membership,” Joshua Wong, a leader of the 2014 protests who co-founded the Demosisto party with Mr. Law, shouted through a megaphone. “If — touch wood — he loses the case, he would go bankrupt.”Mr. Law, who at 23 is the youngest person ever to have been elected to the Legislative Council, is among four pro-democracy legislators the government is trying to unseat over what it said were invalid oaths of office. The move has stirred worries of a wider crackdown on opposition politicians, after the government won a similar, but separate, case that prevented two politicians who favor independence for Hong Kong, a former British colony that returned to Chinese rule in 1997, from taking seats in the Legislative Council.In another blow to those two politicians,  Sixtus Leung, known as Baggio, and Yau Wai-ching, the Hong Kong government rescinded a permit for their party, Youngspiration, to set up a stall at Victoria Park less than a week before the opening of the fair. In a first, it cited the party’s pro-independence advocacy, saying visitors might “support or oppose the messages” of the party and thus “endanger public order and safety.” Another pro-independence party, the Hong Kong National Party, was also barred from the fair.During New Year celebrations last year, in the Hong Kong district of Mong Kok, violent clashes broke out between the police and protesters who said they wanted to defend the New Year tradition of food hawkers’ selling fish balls and other street snacks. Although the hawkers were unlicensed, they were supported by Hong Kong residents who saw them as emblematic of local culture, which they feel is under threat. Many among the dozens of people arrested were connected to a pro-independence activist group.Mr. Wong, a founder of Demosisto, said on Thursday that he was concerned that the authorities might broaden their crackdown on avowed separatists to those who seek greater democracy, with legal challenges and through other means.“It set a very bad precedent,” he said in an interview, referring to the move to bar pro-independence parties from setting up shop at the fair, adding that he does not support independence for Hong Kong. “Today they banned pro-independence parties, tomorrow they could ban those supporting self-determination, and one day they can ban anyone who calls for universal suffrage and democracy.”Despite the Hong Kong government’s apparent anxiety about the messages of opposing parties’ provoking violence, political adversaries have long coexisted peacefully at the Lunar New Year fair in Victoria Park.This year, the stall of the staunchly pro-Beijing New People’s Party, featuring chicken-themed plush toys — the year that begins Friday night is the Year of the Rooster — stood alongside those of pro-democracy parties.A makeshift museum at the fair featured photos of the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests, run by a group that condemns the Chinese Communist Party’s military crackdown and calls for an end to one-party rule.From inside the museum, one could hear the music from a nearby miniconcert celebrating the approaching 20th anniversary of Hong Kong’s return to the Chinese “motherland.”
PARIS — The spring couture ended as it began: with a tribute to the Italian Vogue editor Franca Sozzani, who died Dec. 22 at age 66.This one came courtesy of Pierpaolo Piccioli, creative director of Valentino, who asked audience members to bow their heads for a minute of silence before his show; earlier in the week his former design partner, Maria Grazia Chiuri, now artistic director of Dior, dedicated her show to the editor. Ms. Sozzani had, after all, been instrumental in both their careers. As a tribute to an individual, it was a fitting finish to a season that has been marked by an unexpected, but oddly appropriate, return to intimacy.Whether it was forced on the few remaining couture brands by decreasing audience size or embraced as a core value, no matter. (Why go to Paris when Paris increasingly will come to you? At least if you live in the Middle East or Asia.)Diane Von Furstenberg brought her granddaughter Talita as a post-college-acceptance treat, and the two sat together whispering in multiple front rows. Natalia Vodianova returned to the runway as a favor for her fellow Russian, Ulyana Sergeenko, opening a show of folkloric flounces in black silk and velvet, as if our heroine had been interrupted in the midst of her cocktail hour and was forced to flee to the woods in all her finery. Viktor & Rolf built an entire (and entirely charming) collection on upcycled vintage ball gowns, cutting and pasting and patching tulle and brocade and lace and embroidery, the better to highlight “the value in missing pieces, cracks and chips — bringing to light the scars that come from life experiences.” Or so said the show notes.It makes sense when you think about it. Having a dress made on you, to your specifications, is an intimate experience; only you, in the end, know the difference in how it feels, and fits. And though this occasionally gets lost in the drive to perfume marketing — as it seemed to do at Jean Paul Gaultier, whose initial razor-sharp understated tailleurs quickly gave way to trompe l’oeil ’80s denim (actually composed of hundreds of strips of ribbon), corset belts and muscle tees, and then an entire botanic garden’s worth of daisy, poppy and sunflower prints — it is the operating principle of the couture. People make the clothes and for people they are meant.At Givenchy, Riccardo Tisci constructed an evening gown out of hundreds of miniaturized linked dream catchers, each disc woven in black thread by hand in a different pattern. It took 2,000 hours to make.At Valentino, according to Mr. Piccioli, one of the petites mains in his atelier draws a little heart on the paper she wraps her dress in for delivery to the client: a secret symbol of the care she put into the garment.Backstage before his show, Mr. Piccioli stood in front of his inspiration board, talking a visitor through his thought process, pointing out lines from Shakespeare and Flaubert, when he paused in front of another jotting. “That’s from the heart drawer,” he said.A quote from “The Tempest” and a note from the atelier given the same pride of place; for an elitist discipline, it was a notably egalitarian idea.Then he put it into action.His first couture show as Valentino’s sole creative director was an invitation to look inside, with almost every garment in some way containing a hidden dimension, or a veiled extravagance. The reference was mythology, but also the paper shrouds that are placed over clothes-in-progress at night as protection in the empty studio. Sometimes that meant the body itself was obscured, as loose Grecian columns in a cascade of crepe pleats swung down from the neck and shoulders in the kind of simplicity that takes hours to achieve (effort can be hidden, too). Sometimes that meant fluid trousers rendered slightly out of focus by a floor-length “shirt” of sheer tulle under an equally elongated coat. Sometimes it meant a chiffon evening gown embroidered in tiny sequined flowers or rhinestone geometries, the whole fuzzed out by a monastic overlay of net.The point was not to define beauty in the eye of the beholder (or not primarily) but in the experience of the wearer. Everything may be product, but it’s personal, too.
SYDNEY, Australia — President Trump confirmed that his administration would honor a refugee resettlement deal for the United States to accept migrants Australia has detained on the Pacific islands of Nauru and Manus, the Australian prime minister said on Monday.Mr. Trump agreed to maintain the agreement, reached under the Obama administration, during a 25-minute telephone call on Sunday, said the prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull. The election of Mr. Trump, whose harsh talk about immigration was central to his campaign, left the deal in doubt, and its future was considered an early test for relations between the United States and Australia.“I thank President Trump for his commitment to honor that existing agreement,” Mr. Turnbull said during a news conference on Monday in Canberra, the Australian capital. Mr. Turnbull did not provide details on how many refugees, who have been banished to Nauru and Manus by Australia after being intercepted at sea trying to reach its shores, would be going to the United States under the one-time agreement or when they were likely to be resettled. Hundreds of people are housed in offshore detention facilities on the islands in what rights groups describe as inhumane conditions.The deal had been under negotiation for months before being announced in mid-November, shortly after Mr. Trump was elected. As a presidential candidate, he pressed for a temporary ban on all Muslim immigration, though his campaign later said that the ban would apply only to migrants from “terror-prone regions.” His executive order on immigration, enacted on Friday, banned immediate entry into the United States by people from several predominantly Muslim countries, and it further fueled speculation that the deal with Australia might be derailed.Dougal Robinson, a research fellow at the United States Studies Center at the University of Sydney, estimated that fewer than 2,000 detainees would be sent to the United States. “They’ve already had significant vetting by Australian authorities and any refugees that will be settled in the U.S. will be subject to ‘extreme vetting’ by Department of Homeland Security,” Mr. Robinson said. “If the Trump administration at any point is going to accept refugees then these refugees are probably better placed than most others.”Mr. Trump’s order closed the nation to refugees and people from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. The majority of refugees on Manus and Nauru are from Iran and Iraq, and it is unclear whether a proven refugee on Nauru and Manus who is from those countries and had been successfully vetted by the Homeland Security Department would receive the same treatment as a refugee not from those countries. “We don’t have a clear indication of the mechanics of the deal and how it will work,” Mr. Robinson said.The Australian government has pledged never to accept migrants who attempt to come to the country by boat. Those who are intercepted at sea are housed indefinitely on offshore islands, which the government says is necessary to deter human traffickers who often pack migrants into boats for the long journeys.Mr. Turnbull said Monday that Australia had border security arrangements that were the envy of the world. “We’ve got very strong systems,” he said. “We’re proud of those, and we’ll maintain them, and where we can, we will enhance them.”
Tennis matches that are worth sleep deprivation: Venus vs. Serena Williams; Federer vs. Nadal.Those are the Australian Open finals, and they begin at 3:30 a.m. Eastern. The women’s match is Saturday; the men’s final is Sunday. Both will be televised on ESPN.Here’s everything you need to know about both rivalries.Is it 2002 again?The final of the Australian Open on Saturday finds the American sisters Venus, 36, and Serena Williams, 35, together at the end — a common sight a decade or more ago. It will be the ninth time the sisters will play in Grand Slam final, but the first since 2009.Not every fan has pined for the return of the Williams rivalry. Their matches are often criticized as passionless, and the sisters have said they do not especially enjoy playing each other.“It definitely doesn’t get easier,” Serena said after an early-round match between them at Wimbledon in 2015.Here are their previous eight Grand Slam finals, six of which were won by Serena.2001 U.S. Open: Venus in Two SetsVenus Williams, 21, was already a three-time major winner and the defending champion. Serena, 19, had precociously won the Open two years before but had not been back to a Grand Slam final since. In the Open’s first prime-time women’s final, the older sister won, 6-2, 6-4. It was the first major Grand Slam final between sisters since Maud and Lilian Watson at Wimbledon in 1884 and also the first to feature two African-Americans.How long ago was it? In the men’s final, Lleyton Hewitt defeated Pete Sampras.The winner said: “I always want Serena to win. It’s strange. I’m the bigger sister. I’m the one who takes care of her. I make sure she has everything even if I don’t. I love her. It’s hard.”The Times said: “There was no doubt about the effort as they grunted and grimaced through every point.”2002 French Open: Serena in Two SetsSerena experienced the longest major title drought of her career between her first in 1999 and her second here. After winning her first French Open, 7-5, 6-3, Serena would not win another at Roland Garros for 11 years. Venus has not advanced past the quarterfinals in Paris since.The winner said: “I was really fighting for this for so long. At one point, I wouldn’t get past the quarters; then I got to the final, maybe a semi here and there. But it was just kind of discouraging. I didn’t want to be a one-hit wonder.”The Times said: “Today, the Williams sisters reversed roles. Serena held on, while Venus came undone.”2002 Wimbledon: Serena in Two SetsSerena followed her first French Open title with her first Wimbledon title, 7-6 (4), 6-3. Venus had been the two-time defending champion and after this match, she lost the No. 1 ranking to Serena, too.The winner said: “I kept thinking to myself: ‘O.K., Serena, just stay calm. Venus already has two Wimbledons. Try to fight.’”The Times said: “Playing with the ferocity normally reserved only for others, Venus and Serena discarded their sibling code of conduct during today’s Wimbledon final.”2002 U.S. Open: Serena in Two SetsWith a 6-4, 6-3 victory in Flushing Meadows, Serena completed a 4-0 season against her sister. Winning her third major in a row, Serena also tied Venus with four Grand Slam titles overall.“Everybody has a year,” Venus said. “This is her year. Next year could be her year, too.”The winner said: “I prefer to play Venus because that means that we have reached our maximum potential and that we’ll both go home winners. For me, I’m happy to play her in the final.”The Times said: “If Venus and Serena continue to find each other at the end of majors the way Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi have all these years, there will be a universal appreciation for a rivalry that will never be re-created again.”2003 Australian Open: Serena in Three SetsFor the fourth straight Grand Slam event, it was Williams versus Williams. And for the fourth straight time, Serena was the winner, completing her first so-called Serena Slam. For the first time, the match went three sets: 7–6 (4),3–6, 6–4. (Serena completed another Serena Slam in 2014-15 by winning four majors in a row.)The winner said: “I never get choked up, never, but I’m really emotional right now and really, really happy,”The Times said: “In a breathtaking, fist-pumping, title-gobbling hurry, Serena Williams has become one of the greats.”2003 Wimbledon: Serena in Three SetsAfter an all-Belgian French Open final between Kim Clijsters and Justine Henin, normal service resumed in the next major tournament. But this may have been the most awkward of the finals between the Williams sisters. Venus strained an abdominal muscle during her semifinal match, and later acknowledged that she might not have played if it had not been a Wimbledon final and if the opponent had not been her sister. Still, Venus battled for three sets, losing, 4-6, 6-4, 6-2.The winner said: “I was just telling myself, if anything, ‘This is Wimbledon.’ God knows if I would get this opportunity again, so I just kept telling myself that. I think, if anything, I fought harder.”The Times said: It might be getting easier for Serena to play her older sister, but it is still not nearly the same as matching huge ground strokes and healthy egos with an outsider. Playing Venus when she was injured only added a layer of complexity.2008 Wimbledon: Venus in Two SetsAfter the sisters played each other six times in eight major finals from 2001 to 2003, it took almost five years for them to meet in a final again. For the first time since their first Grand Slam final, Venus came out on top, 7-5, 6-4. It was Venus’s fifth Wimbledon title and seventh major championship overall, though she has not won one since.The winner said: “She played so awesome. It was really a task to beat her.”The Times said: “Sisters for life and doubles partners later in the afternoon, Venus and Serena Williams put most of that aside for nearly two hours on Saturday at Wimbledon, smacking serves and ground strokes in each other’s direction with a vengeance and an accuracy that have often been lacking in their previous family reunions.”2009 Wimbledon: Serena in Two SetsVenus was the two-time defending champion, and coming into the final, she had won 20 straight matches and 34 straight sets at the All England Club. But Serena would not be denied, winning, 7-6 (3), 6-2. She had claimed three of the past four Grand Slam events to bring her career total to 11.The winner said: (Of the Venus Rosewater Dish, presented to the winner) “It’s named the Venus, and she always wins it, and it’s just like wow. It hasn’t settled in that I won yet.”The Times said: “Serena’s victory on Saturday, in which she finished with 12 aces and never lost her serve, was the latest confirmation that she is on another memorable run.”Serena Williams was not nearly done. Since that final, she has made 14 more, winning 11 for a career total of 22 Grand Slam singles championships. Venus has not been back to a final, with just two Grand Slam semifinal appearances.Until this week. Seeded just 13th, Venus rolled back the years to seize an unexpected berth in the final in Melbourne. Once again, her sister stands in the way.Two of the all-time greats meet again, 35-year-old Roger Federer and 30-year-old Rafael Nadal. It is their first meeting in a Grand Slam final in more than five years. The excitement has been amplified by the unexpectedness of the matchup. Both players are coming off long layoffs because of injuries, and they have fallen in the rankings. Nadal is seeded ninth in Melbourne, and Federer 17th.The titans of the sport for more than a decade, Nadal and Federer have met 34 times since 2004 (Nadal leads, 23-11). Eight of those matches came on the highest stage: a Grand Slam final. Here are those matches (Nadal leads, 6-2), soon to increase by one.2006 French Open: Nadal in Four SetsNadal, still only 20, was the defending champion and had established himself as the best in the world on clay, winning 59 in a row on the surface. Federer, 24, was the game’s best player, with a 7-0 record in Slam finals, including the previous three. But Nadal had won the last four matches against Federer and also their first final matchup, 1-6, 6-1, 6-4, 7-6 (4), after missing the Australian Open with a broken foot.The winner said: “To beat the No. 1 player and doing it after the injury I had, I’d say the emotions were a bit more powerful.”The New York Times said: “It was short on rhythm, short on spectacular rallies and, ultimately, short on suspense.”2006 Wimbledon: Federer in Four SetsNadal was 4-0 against Federer on the year. But back on his favored grass surface, Federer won his fourth consecutive Wimbledon title, 6-0, 7-6 (5), 6-7 (2), 6-3.The winner said: “It was important for me to win a final against him for a change and beat him for a change. At Wimbledon, I knew it was going to be the place for me to do it the easiest way.”The Times said: Federer was “looking slightly more relieved than overjoyed as he walked, heavy-legged, to the net to share a handshake and a pat on the stomach with the young Spaniard.”2007 French Open: Nadal in Four SetsFederer again came in having won three consecutive Grand Slam titles. A week before the French Open began, he finally beat Nadal on clay for the first time. But Nadal again foiled him in Paris, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4. Federer had 59 unforced errors to Nadal’s 27.The winner said: “Roger sometimes plays very, very aggressive, especially with the forehand. But anyway, for me, he has the best forehand of the tour, no? But, yes, the truth is, he had some mistakes today, more than usual.”The Times said: “Nadal’s forehands found the court’s white lines as if they were magnets, as he repeatedly hit winners. He dripped with sweat, but seemed to be gaining energy, while Federer looked exhausted.”2007 Wimbledon: Federer in Five SetsFederer gained a fifth consecutive Wimbledon title, 7-6 (7), 4-6, 7-6 (3), 2-6, 6-2, joining Bjorn Borg as the only players to do that in a century. It was the first five-set Slam major between the rivals, who between them had now won the last 10 Grand Slam events. (The streak ended at 11 when Novak Djokovic won the Australian Open the next year.)Federer won the match with his serve: He had 24 aces to Nadal’s one.The winner said: “It’s a good rivalry, I think. We’ve been at the top for over 100 weeks together. It is building up to one of, maybe, the great rivalries.”The Times said: “Nadal is moving closer, but he cannot seem to beat Federer off the clay.”2008 French Open: Nadal in Three SetsNadal was at his absolute peak in this tournament, not losing a set on the way to a fourth straight title at Roland Garros. His 6-1, 6-3, 6-0 victory was the most lopsided result in a men’s Grand Slam final since 1984, and it was the only final between the rivals to be decided in straight sets.The winner said: “I think I played an almost perfect match, and Roger made more mistakes than usual.”The Times said: “In a final that only rarely resembled anything other than one-way traffic, Nadal was at his suffocating finest.”2008 Wimbledon: Nadal in Five SetsNadal had won four straight French Opens, and Federer five straight Wimbledons. The pattern finally ended with this breakthrough victory for Nadal, generally cited as the greatest match between them.Nadal won the first two sets before Federer fought back to win the next two in tiebreakers. The final set went all the way to 9-7; Nadal finally won when Federer hit a short forehand into the net after 4 hours 48 minutes. The final score was 6–4, 6–4, 6–7 (5), 6–7 (8), 9–7. It was the longest singles final in Wimbledon’s 131-year history and finished in near darkness.The winner said: “It’s one of the most powerful feelings I’ve had in my life.”The Times said: “Last year’s emotional tussle immediately took its place among the best Wimbledon finals, but this five-set classic — played on a rainy, gusty day — was better yet.”2009 Australian Open: Nadal in Five SetsFor the first time, the men met in a Grand Slam final somewhere besides Paris or London. And for the first time, it was Nadal who was seeded first, with Federer second.In another five-setter, Nadal won again, 7-5, 3-6, 7-6 (3), 3-6, 6-2, preventing Federer from equaling Pete Sampras’s record of 14 Grand Slams. Federer struggled with his serve, putting only 52 percent of his first serves in play, by far his lowest percentage of the tournament.A devastated Federer broke down in tears during his postmatch interview, saying, “God, it’s killing me.”The winner said (to Federer): “Well, first of all, sorry for today. I really know how you feel right now. It’s really tough. Remember, you’re a great champion. You’re one of the best in history.”The Times said: “The roar heard at Rod Laver Arena when Federer held serve to even the match at two sets apiece was soon replaced by the groans and awkward silences that accompany an anticlimax.”2011 French Open: Nadal in Four SetsBefore this year, this was the only final in which Nadal and Federer were not seeded Nos. 1 and 2 (Nadal was No. 1, but Federer was No. 3, behind Djokovic). Nadal matched Borg with a sixth French title, 7-5, 7-6 (3), 5-7, 6-1.The winner said: “There is a lot of emotion, but the real satisfaction comes from all the work you do before you get there.”The Times said: “Their rivalry is one of the greatest in tennis history, yet it has been decidedly short on suspense here.”Since that match, Federer has been back to a Grand Slam final four times, winning the 2012 Wimbledon, his seventh. Nadal has been to eight major finals, with a 4-4 record. Last year was the first since 2002 in which neither appeared in a Grand Slam final.Their rivalry seemed to be waning as Djokovic and Andy Murray took their places at the top of tennis.But here are Federer and Nadal again, improbably, for one more big final.
BEIRUT, Lebanon — Kim Jong-un might seem an unlikely player in the global jockeying to get on the new American president’s good side, given the North Korean leader’s implied threats as recently as New Year’s Day to launch nuclear missiles at the United States.But Mr. Kim apparently sees in President Trump “a good opportunity for him to open a kind of compromise with the new American administration,” North Korea’s highest-ranking defector, Thae Yong-ho, said in an interview with CNN last week.The bromance between President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Mr. Trump is the most prominent example of a trend that has swept the world, instilling new hope for a strongman-friendly America in countries like the Philippines, Turkey or Egypt, and among nationalists in many other places who hope to follow in Mr. Trump’s footsteps and gain political power.Many appear to see a Trump presidency as an opportunity to engage with a like-minded leader who has stated nationalist aims. Others may hope for respite from criticism over their human rights records or authoritarian tendencies. Some, like Mr. Kim and Mr. Putin, might see an opportunity to further their national aims in a new geopolitical order.The historian Timothy Garton Ash, writing in The Guardian, called the Trump presidency “a new era of nationalism” in which “the nationalists are giving one another the Trumpian thumbs-up across the seas.”The Philippine president, Rodrigo Duterte, who called former President Barack Obama a “son of a whore” for the Obama administration’s criticism of an officially sanctioned assassination campaign against drug dealers in the Philippines, was quick to congratulate Mr. Trump on his election victory. The Philippine president said last week that Mr. Trump had sent him a message of support.Mr. Duterte, who has threatened to break off relations with the United States, a longtime ally, and turn to China instead, made the announcement during an appearance at the Miss Universe pageant in Manila. (Like Mr. Trump, who owned Miss Universe until 2015, Mr. Duterte has long reveled in appearing in public with beauty queens.)Mr. Duterte appeared unfazed by Mr. Trump’s order last week blocking refugees from the United States and curtailing immigration from some mainly Muslim countries, saying on Sunday that “I will not lift a finger” to help Filipinos facing deportation from the United States, according to The Philippine Daily Inquirer.Even those who were contemptuous of Mr. Trump when he was a reality show star considered a long-shot to win the presidency have changed their tune.In June, after Mr. Trump said he would bar Muslims from entering the United States, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey demanded that Mr. Trump’s name be removed from Trump Towers Istanbul. Mr. Erdogan, an Islamist, has arrested or fired 100,000 opponents and jailed 40,000 more after an unsuccessful military coup last summer.After Mr. Trump’s election, Mr. Erdogan shifted his stance. “I believe we will reach a consensus with Mr. Trump, particularly on regional issues,” Mr. Erdogan said this month during a meeting with Turkish diplomats. Some cracks appeared to show after Mr. Trump’s immigration order Friday: Mr. Erdogan called the move “frankly disturbing.” But he said he would still meet with Mr. Trump at an unspecified date and raise the issue then.And the name of Trump Towers remains unchanged.In Egypt, President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, who has smarted from American criticism about the country’s human rights record and about the military coup that brought him to power, appears to be welcoming Mr. Trump’s leadership. In December, after a phone call from Mr. Trump, Mr. Sisi agreed to delay a vote in the United Nations Security Council on Israeli settlements.Mr. Sisi’s silence in the face of the executive order on refugees was conspicuous, despite widespread sentiment in the region that it was anti-Muslim.In Kazakhstan, the country’s “president for life,” Nursultan A. Nazarbayev, whose poor human rights record is well documented, said Mr. Trump had called him in December and complimented him on the “miracle” he had wrought in his country over its 25 years of independence. Mr. Trump was apparently not referring to Mr. Nazarbayev’s 2015 re-election, which the Kazakh leader won with 97.7 percent of the vote.Mr. Trump has also been lauded by nationalists in Europe, where his anti-immigration messages resonate on a continent that has been swamped with refugees from wars in countries like Syria and with economic migrants. Hungary’s prime minister, Viktor Orban, has welcomed Mr. Trump’s victory, as have far-right leaders such as Marine Le Pen in France.Some of the enthusiasm by authoritarian leaders for Mr. Trump’s presidency seems to be linked to his stated inclination to overturn the world order. That may include rethinking alliances like the North Atlantic Treaty Organization or tackling long-running issues such as North Korea and its nuclear arms program — now overseen by Mr. Kim.In reality, Mr. Kim is still a long way from becoming a friend of Mr. Trump, despite the assertions last week by Mr. Thae, the North Korean defector.Mr. Kim’s anti-American statements have been belligerent even after the election of Mr. Trump, who responded to a supposed North Korean missile threat by posting on Twitter, “It won’t happen!” That led Jeffrey Lewis, a nonproliferation expert, to worry in the magazine Foreign Policy that “Donald Trump is already tweeting us into war with North Korea.”However, Mr. Trump did suggest last year that if he were elected he might meet with Mr. Kim. The offer left the foreign policy establishment shuddering at what many would see as a serious breach of protocol, essentially acknowledging the leader of a state that the United States does not recognize.“I would speak to him. I would have no problem speaking to him,” Mr. Trump said during an interview with Reuters in May.The North Korean and American leaders may find other common ground. When Mr. Trump signed an executive order declaring Jan. 20, his inauguration day, as a “National Day of Patriotic Devotion,” social media feeds lit up with comparisons to declarations from North Korea’s regime of similarly named occasions.For leaders like Mr. Erdogan and Mr. Sisi, the Trump presidency could provide a respite from criticism of their increasingly repressive governments, and it might even validate their tactics.Like other authoritarian leaders, Mr. Erdogan has been a firm ally of the United States and a prickly critic of it. Turkey hosts American military bases and is a member of NATO. But many of Mr. Erdogan’s supporters blamed the United States for the attempted military coup, and Mr. Erdogan has chafed under human rights criticism from Washington of its crackdown on opponents and the news media.Turkish officials have said they are hopeful that the American military will end its cooperation with Kurdish fighters in eastern Turkey. The Pentagon considers the Kurds to be valuable allies, while the Turks see them as terrorist supporters of Kurdish PKK rebels inside Turkey.Turkey has reason to be hopeful. Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, published comments on Election Day calling for stronger support for the Turkish government. Mr. Flynn’s consulting company, Flynn Intel Group, had a contract at the time with a Turkish business association loosely affiliated with the Erdogan government.Mr. Erdogan, who has jailed more journalists than any other leader in the past year, was almost gleeful after Mr. Trump shouted down the CNN reporter Jim Acosta at a news conference in January, responding to CNN and BuzzFeed reports on intelligence briefings regarding unsubstantiated allegations of Russian efforts to blackmail Mr. Trump.“Those who carried out that game back then in Turkey have done him wrong again during the news conference,” Mr. Erdogan said after the event, referring to CNN. “And Mr. Trump put the reporter of that group in his place.”Even with all the friendly words, it is unclear whether Mr. Trump and thin-skinned leaders like Mr. Erdogan and Mr. Duterte will be able to maintain their warm relationships.In Manila, for example, Mr. Duterte’s appreciation of Mr. Trump’s support was qualified. He said he sent a reply to Mr. Trump, via Miss Universe organizers, complaining about his apparent exclusion from Mr. Trump’s inauguration. “I said tell him, ‘Friend, I didn’t go to the inauguration because I wasn’t invited.’”
The alarming headlines came quickly Wednesday morning: “Now It’s Getting Serious: 2017 Could See a Bacon Shortage.” “Nation’s bacon reserves hit 50-year low as prices rise.” “Everyone Freak Out! American Is Running Low on Bacon.”And panic people did:The source of the anxiety was a recent report from the U.S.D.A., boosted by the Ohio Pork Council, which reported that the country’s frozen pork belly inventory was at its lowest point in half a century. Pork belly is the source of the greasy, delicious meat slices people love to put on everything. At the end of 2016, the reserves held just 17.8 million pounds, down more than 35 million pounds from the year prior.“Today’s pig farmers are setting historic records by producing more pigs than ever,” Rich Deaton, the president of the council, said in a statement. “Yet our reserves are still depleting.”The organization even created a website: baconshortage.com. And many outlets — USA Today, NBC, CBS, Men’s Health and Business Insider — ran with the news.But the truth is this: The frozen reserves are just that — reserves. There will be no rationing at breakfast, or for your burgers (or B.L.T.s, or quiche, or roasted bacon-wrapped rabbit, or apples and ice cream. Not even for your bacon footballs this weekend.)“To imply that there’s going to be some shortage of bacon is wrong,” said Steve Meyer, the vice president of pork analysis for EMI Analytics, in an interview as the bacon reports spread. “There’s plenty of hogs coming. There’s going to be plenty of bacon.”Mr. Meyer, who also works as a consulting economist to the National Pork Producers Council, did explain that frozen pork belly inventory is down dramatically, and said that the price of belly has gone up 50 cents a pound in the last two months.“But it’s not as if we’re going to run out of bacon,” he said.Mr. Deaton of the Ohio Pork Council acknowledged in an interview that the creation of baconshortage.com was merely a marketing opportunity.“If somebody Googled that, they’d get on our website, and the information there is actually to quell the fears that we’re going to run out,” he said. “The demand is high and us pig farmers, not only in Ohio but throughout the U.S., have risen to the occasion and are going to meet that demand.”To create a panic “was not our intent,” Mr. Deaton added with a laugh. “We can’t control how the news is interpreted.”(A similar panic took hold back in 2012, thanks to clever stoking from the obscure National Pig Association of the United Kingdom; the shortage was debunked then, as well.)But — we repeat — bacon lovers have nothing to fear. According to Mr. Meyer, the United States produces almost 75 million pounds of pork belly every week. “We’re going to slaughter about 3 percent more pigs this year than we did last year — a record number,” he said. “Bacon production will be higher than it’s ever been.“We export some of that, but the market for bacon is so good in the United States,” Mr. Meyer added, “because everything tastes better with bacon on it.”
SEOUL, South Korea — Ban Ki-moon, the former United Nations chief, said on Wednesday that he would not run for the presidency of South Korea, a surprise announcement that deprived beleaguered conservatives of their likeliest candidate to succeed the country’s sidelined leader, Park Geun-hye.Mr. Ban, who returned to his native South Korea last month after 10 years as the United Nations secretary general, had been touted as a viable contender to replace Ms. Park, a conservative whose presidential powers have been suspended since the National Assembly voted to impeach her in December amid accusations of corruption. But Mr. Ban’s approval ratings have been falling, and he has been the subject of negative news coverage about his policy positions and a scandal involving his relatives.“I have decided to fold my pure-hearted plan to lead an effort to achieve political reform and national unity,” Mr. Ban said at a news conference at the National Assembly. He apologized to South Koreans who supported his tentative presidential bid, including former diplomats and politicians.The Constitutional Court is expected to decide in the coming weeks whether to end Ms. Park’s presidency, and political parties have been gearing up for an election that could take place as early as spring. If Ms. Park survives in office, an election will be held in December to decide who succeeds her when her five-year term ends in February.Mr. Ban had acted like a candidate since coming home last month, paying homage to the dead at national cemeteries, meeting with politicians to discuss election strategy and holding news conferences, where he had tirelessly explained why he would make a good president. He said his experience at the United Nations would help him lead the country through tough problems, like the growing nuclear threat from North Korea and rising discontent over economic inequality.But skepticism has abounded over his presidential bid, especially among progressives. And recent polls have indicated that the gap between him and the front-runner, the opposition leader Moon Jae-in, was only widening.Detractors portrayed Mr. Ban as a weak diplomat who would be unable to institute badly needed reforms, or as a stooge for a conservative establishment desperate for a candidate. And domestic news outlets have hounded him over what they called his changing stances on the sensitive issue of “comfort women,” the euphemistic term for the Korean women forced into sexual slavery for Japanese soldiers during World War II. A bribery scandal that involved his younger brother and nephew also drew considerable news coverage.But the main argument made by his critics was that Mr. Ban, essentially an outsider with no political faction of his own, would not survive the thrust and parry of domestic politics. And that was what did him in, Mr. Ban indicated during his news conference on Wednesday.“I was deeply disappointed by outdated and narrow-minded egoism among some politicians,” Mr. Ban said. “I have determined that it is meaningless to try to work with them.” He said he had been subjected to “slander and fake news that bordered on character assassination.”Mr. Ban’s elevation to the top United Nations job a decade ago, after a stint as South Korea’s foreign minister, has made him one of the country’s most celebrated role models for the young. School textbooks, for example, refer to him as a “man who made South Korea proud.”Some conservative politicians have suggested that Prime Minister Hwang Kyo-ahn, who is serving as acting president while Ms. Park is on trial before the Constitutional Court, should run as a conservative candidate. But Mr. Hwang has not committed to doing so, and he has ranked a distant third or fourth in recent polls surveying the popularity of potential candidates.
“You must do something for the children of Syria,” reads the note, scrawled in pencil on white lined paper in childlike handwriting.Seven-year-old Bana al-Abed and her mother, Fatemah, posted an open letter to President Trump on Bana’s Twitter account on Wednesday, sharing the message with the hundreds of thousands of users who follow the account.The page-long letter asks the new president to “please save the children and people of Syria.”Bana first captured global attention when she and her mother created a Twitter account, @AlabedBana, that posted near-daily updates on their life in opposition-held Eastern Aleppo and condemned the government’s role in the violence.The photos and videos from inside the city offered a rare glimpse into life in a war zone, and revealed the struggles faced by a family under siege. Bana and her family are now living in Turkey, after fleeing Aleppo in December.Some, however, have questioned whether Bana actually wrote the Twitter posts herself and if the videos in which she speaks were rehearsed or altered. And supporters of the government of President Bashar al-Assad assailed her as a fraud and a propaganda tool.After her family’s arrival in Turkey, they visited President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in Ankara and she was photographed being hugged by Mr. Erdogan.Fatemah told The New York Times that her request to Mr. Trump was a simple one: “Look to the children in Syria like your children.”She said Bana regularly hears news about Mr. Trump and felt it was time to try to get his attention.“Donald Trump is now president. He can do something for the people, especially in conflict zones,” Fatemah said. “And all the world had their opinions about this. And this was our opinion, me and Bana.”Fatemah said the note was intended to urge Mr. Trump to change his stance on Syrian refugees. She wrote it ahead of an expected executive order that would cut the country’s refugee resettlement program and toughen immigration restrictions for people from a number of predominantly Muslim countries, including Syria.Despite Mr. Trump’s repeated remarks on tightening restrictions against Muslims entering the United States, Fatemah said she believed that someday his views may change.“Maybe he will change his mind, I don’t know,” Fatemah said. “But we will keep hoping.”
Social media shook with emotion. Headlines shouted the news. Legal scholars debated the order’s scope. But the most immediate effect of President Trump’s executive order barring refugees from entering the United States and halting entry from seven predominantly Muslim countries could be quantified on a human scale: refugees and other immigrants from those seven countries, some on their way to the United States on Friday when Mr. Trump signed the order, who were no longer able to enter the United States.Here are some of their stories.Hearing of Mr. Trump’s plan to slam the door on Muslim immigrants this week, Mr. Shareef hurried his wife and three children onto a plane in the Iraqi city of Erbil in the early hours of Saturday. They had been cleared to resettle in Nashville — a new life that Mr. Shareef considered a great opportunity. After the American invasion of Iraq in 2003, Mr. Shareef worked as a translator with American officials, and he received death threats. But after the Shareefs arrived in Cairo on Saturday, a check-in official spoke to Mr. Shareef.“He said they had just received an email from the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad,” Mr. Shareef said. “It said we could not get on the flight.”Speaking by phone from an airport lounge, Mr. Shareef said he had sold the family home and car. His wife had given up her job. His two daughters, 10 and 17, had quit school. He had spent $5,000 on flights.“I thought in America there are institutions, democracy,” he said. “This looks like a decision from a dictator. I don’t understand.”“Donald Trump ruined my life,” he said.Ms. Omer, 39, is a green card holder, has lived in the United States since 1993, and graduated from Harvard University. On Friday night Ms. Omer was detained at Kennedy International Airport as she returned from Sudan, where she is a citizen, after a research trip for her anthropology Ph.D. at Stanford University.Ms. Omer said customs officials were apologetic and appeared confused about what they were supposed to do with the detained travelers. “I have to do this,” one told her. For five hours they asked about her travels, her academic research and her views on Sudanese politics, which they admitted to knowing little about.At one point, she said, they aggressively patted her down and handcuffed her. They removed the restraints when she began to cry, but the detainees brought in for questioning after her arrived in handcuffs, she said.“For the brief moment I was handcuffed, I couldn’t control myself and I just started crying,” Ms. Omer said. “It was humiliating. I thought I was going to be returned to Sudan.”After Ms. Omer was released she said she felt like one of the lucky ones.“There are a lot of people being treated much worse or are being sent back,” she said. “If they get sent back to Iraq or Syria it is a life-or-death situation.”Hazhir Rahmandad, a professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Sloan School of Management, said his parents who hold green cards and split their time between the United States and Iran, were due back in Massachusetts on Tuesday to celebrate the birthday of Mr. Rahmandad’s twin children. Now they will not travel.Professor Rahmandad set up a Google form for people from countries affected by the immigration order to report and share their experiences attempting to travel to the U.S. “I was so concerned,” he said. By Saturday evening, his spreadsheet had over 200 entries, most of them concerning people from Iran.Mr. Abdi, 30, a Ph.D. student in anthropology at Yale with permanent residency in the United States, said he left the United States on Jan. 22 for Afghanistan, where he planned to do field research for much of the next year. He had participated in the women’s march in Washington the day before. Now, he said he was in legal limbo as he awaited a visa from the consulate of Afghanistan, unable to return to the United States even with a green card and fearful of returning to Iran because of his activism about human rights issues there.Speaking by phone from Dubai, Mr. Abdi said his current visa limits his stay in the United Arab Emirates to about a month. The possibility that green card holders and refugees could be barred from the United States did not occur to him when he left, he said.“We didn’t believe it really, that it was going to be implemented,” he said. “Maybe we were taking the Trump administration less seriously than it is.”Nada, a Yazidi woman from Iraq, was on her way to be reunited with her husband, Khalas, who lives in Washington. The two of them, their last names not released, were granted special immigrant visas to the United States as part of a program created to help thousands of Iraqis with ties to the United States, according to The New Yorker. Khalas, a former interpreter for the United States Army, was granted his visa in April. Nada’s visa was approved about a week ago, and her passport on Thursday.She was turned away, however, when she arrived at the gate for her flight in Dubai, wrote Kirk W. Johnson, the founder and executive director of the List Project to Resettle Iraqi Allies. “The flight crew sent her back,” Khalas texted Mr. Johnson, “saying they got orders that no Iraqis with American visas should be boarded.”Ms. Assali, 25, a third-year medical student from Allentown, Pa., said six of her Syrian relatives had arrived in Philadelphia on a flight from Doha, Qatar, on Saturday morning, only to be detained and put on a flight back less than three hours later. The group had obtained family-based immigrant visas.Ms. Assali said in a telephone interview that her six relatives — two uncles, two aunts and two teenage cousins, whom she did not name out of fear of endangering them or their case — are Christians who live in Damascus. Her father was on his way to pick up the relatives from the airport when he got a call from a customs official, she said, who said his family would not be leaving the airport. “They told him they’re not coming out, and to just go back.” Ms. Assali said. “And that it’s confidential and he can’t tell them why. They said it was an issue with their paperwork.”Mr. Darweesh, a husband and father of three who worked for the United States military in Iraq for about a decade, was detained after arriving at Kennedy Airport on Friday night. He was granted a special immigrant visa on Jan. 20. When he filed for it, he said he had been directly targeted because of his work for the United States as an interpreter, engineer and contractor.Mr. Darweesh was released on Saturday after lawyers filed a writ of habeas corpus in federal court seeking freedom for him, as well as for another Iraqi detained at the airport.Speaking to reporters and some protesters who gathered outside Kennedy Airport, Mr. Darweesh called the United States the greatest nation in the world. He said he was thankful for the people who had worked on his behalf. “This is the humanity, this is the soul of America,” he said. “This is what pushed me to move, leave my country and come here.”Ms. Tayari, a resident of the United Kingdom who holds an Iranian passport, was unable to get back to Glasgow, where she works as a veterinarian, from Costa Rica, where she was vacationing, because her flight traveled through New York, according to The Guardian. Ms. Tayari grew up in Italy and told the newspaper that she had never experienced anything like it. She said it might cost her a month’s salary to book a new flight home.“I am destroyed,” she said. “I did not know that I could cry for so long. It feels like the beginning of the end. How this is possible? I am really afraid about what is going on.”The family members have been living in a refugee camp in Turkey, and were scheduled to fly to the United States on Monday, according to US Together, a refugee resettlement agency quoted in The Plain Dealer of Cleveland. The agency had found an apartment for them to rent with another family of Syrian refugees in Cleveland.Those plans have been canceled after Mr. Trump’s order.“It was going to be really perfect,” Danielle Drake, a community relations manager for US Together, told the newspaper. “I can’t even imagine how the family feels right now.”Mr. Saravi, a young scientist in Iran, had been scheduled to travel to Boston, where he had been awarded a fellowship at Harvard to study cardiovascular medicine, according to Thomas Michel, the professor who was to supervise his research. Then the visas for Mr. Saravi and his wife were suspended, Professor Michel said.“This outstanding young scientist has enormous potential to make contributions that will improve our understanding of heart disease, and he has already been thoroughly vetted,” Professor Michel wrote to The New York Times. “This country and this city have a long history of providing research training to the best young scientists in the world, many of whom have stayed in the U.S.A. and made tremendous contributions in biomedicine and other disciplines.”Mr. Alshawi, who worked for a United States contractor in Iraq, was detained after he landed at Kennedy Airport on Friday. He had flown from Stockholm to New York, en route to Texas to see his wife and son.“He gave his package and his passport to an airport officer, and they didn’t talk to him, they just put him in a room,” his wife, who asked to be referred to only by her first initial, D, told The New York Times. “He told me that they forced him to get back to Iraq. He asked for his lawyer and to apply for an asylum case. And they told him: ‘You can’t do that. You need to go back to your country.’”
WASHINGTON — The whirlwind first week of Donald J. Trump’s presidency had all the bravura hallmarks of a Stephen K. Bannon production.It started with the doom-hued inauguration homily to “American carnage” in United States cities co-written by Mr. Bannon, followed a few days later by his “shut up” message to the news media. The week culminated with a blizzard of executive orders, mostly hatched by Mr. Bannon’s team and the White House policy adviser, Stephen Miller, aimed at disorienting the “enemy,” fulfilling campaign promises and distracting attention from Mr. Trump’s less than flawless debut.But the defining moment for Mr. Bannon came Saturday night in the form of an executive order giving the rumpled right-wing agitator a full seat on the “principals committee” of the National Security Council — while downgrading the roles of the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the director of national intelligence, who will now attend only when the council is considering issues in their direct areas of responsibilities. It is a startling elevation of a political adviser, to a status alongside the secretaries of state and defense, and over the president’s top military and intelligence advisers.In theory, the move put Mr. Bannon, a former Navy surface warfare officer, admiral’s aide, investment banker, Hollywood producer and Breitbart News firebrand, on the same level as his friend, Michael T. Flynn, the national security adviser, a former Pentagon intelligence chief who was Mr. Trump’s top adviser on national security issues before a series of missteps reduced his influence.But in terms of real influence, Mr. Bannon looms above almost everyone except the president’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, in the Trumpian pecking order, according to interviews with two dozen Trump insiders and current and former national security officials. The move involving Mr. Bannon, as well as the boost in status to the White House homeland security adviser, Thomas P. Bossert, and Mr. Trump’s relationships with cabinet appointees like Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, have essentially layered over Mr. Flynn.Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Bannon — whose Breitbart website was a magnet for white nationalists, antiglobalists and conspiracy theorists — always planned to participate in national security. Mr. Flynn welcomed his participation, Mr. Spicer said, but the general “led the reorganization of the N.S.C.” in order to streamline an antiquated and bloated bureaucracy.Former White House officials in both parties were shocked by the move.“The last place you want to put somebody who worries about politics is in a room where they’re talking about national security,” said Leon E. Panetta, a former White House chief of staff, defense secretary and C.I.A. director in two Democratic administrations.“I’ve never seen that happen, and it shouldn’t happen. It’s not like he has broad experience in foreign policy and national security issues. He doesn’t. His primary role is to control or guide the president’s conscience based on his campaign promises. That’s not what the National Security Council is supposed to be about.”That opinion was shared by President George W. Bush’s last chief of staff, Josh Bolten, who barred Karl Rove, Mr. Bush’s political adviser, from N.S.C. meetings. A president’s decisions made with those advisers, he told a conference audience in September, “involve life and death for the people in uniform” and should “not be tainted by any political decisions.”Susan E. Rice, President Barack Obama’s last national security adviser, called the arrangement “stone cold crazy” in a tweet posted Sunday.Mr. Spicer said the language the Trump White House used in its N.S.C. executive order is, with the exception of Mr. Bannon’s position — which was created during the transition — almost identical in content to one the Bush administration drafted in 2001. And Mr. Obama’s top political operative, David Axelrod, sat in on some N.S.C. meetings, he added.There were key differences. Mr. Axelrod never served as a permanent member as Mr. Bannon will now, though he sat in on some critical meetings, especially as Mr. Obama debated strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan. “It’s a profound shift,” Mr. Axelrod said. “I don’t know what his bona fides are to be the principal foreign policy adviser to the president.”But Mr. Bannon’s elevation does not merely reflect his growing influence on national security. It is emblematic of Mr. Trump’s trust on a range of political and ideological issues.During the campaign, the sly and provocative Mr. Bannon played a paradoxical role — calming the easily agitated candidate during his frequent rough patches and egging him on when he felt Mr. Trump needed to fire up the white working-class base. The president respects Mr. Bannon because he is independently wealthy and therefore does not need the job, and both men ascribe to a shoot-the-prisoners credo when put on the defensive, according to the former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski.Mr. Bannon is a deft operator within the White House, and he has been praised by Republicans who view him skeptically as the most knowledgeable on policy around the president. But his stated preference for blowing things up — as opposed to putting them back together — may not translate to his new role.The hasty drafting of the immigration order, and its scattershot execution, brought a measure of Mr. Bannon’s chaotic and hyperaggressive political style to the more predictable administration of the federal government. Within hours of the edict, airport customs and border agents were detaining or blocking dozens of migrant families, some of whom had permanent resident status, until John F. Kelly, the new homeland security secretary, intervened.Mr. Kelly’s department had suggested green card holders be exempted from the order, but Mr. Bannon and Mr. Miller, a hard-liner on immigration, overruled him, according to two American officials.Mr. Priebus, speaking on NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Sunday, indicated a softening of the stance, saying the order would not block “green card holders moving forward” — but said anyone seeking to enter the country from the listed countries would be subjected to tighter scrutiny.People close to Mr. Bannon said he is not accumulating power for power’s sake, but is instead helping to fill a staff leadership vacuum created, in part, by Mr. Flynn’s stumbling performance as national security adviser.Mr. Flynn still communicates with Mr. Trump frequently, and his staff has been assembling a version of the Presidential Daily Briefing for Mr. Trump, truncated but comprehensive, to be the president’s main source of national security information. During the campaign, he often had unfettered access to the candidate, who appreciated his brash style and contempt for Hillary Clinton, but during the transition, Mr. Flynn privately complained about having to share face time with others.Mr. Flynn “has the full confidence of the president and his team,” Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, said in an email. Emails and phone calls to Mr. Flynn and his top aide were not returned.A president who likes generals and abhors political correctness, Mr. Trump found in Mr. Flynn — who joined Trump backers in an anti-Clinton “lock her up!” chant during the campaign — perhaps the most politically incorrect general this side of his hero, Gen. George S. Patton.But Mr. Flynn, a lifelong Democrat sacked as head of the Pentagon’s intelligence arm after clashing with Obama administration officials in 2014, has gotten on the nerves of Mr. Trump and other administration officials because of his sometimes overbearing demeanor, and has further diminished his internal standing by presiding over a chaotic and opaque N.S.C. transition process that prioritized the hiring of military officials over civilian experts recommended to him by his own team.Mr. Flynn’s penchant for talking too much was on display on Friday in a meeting with Theresa May, the British prime minister, according to two people with direct knowledge of the events.When Mrs. May said that she understood wanting a dialogue with Mr. Putin but stressed the need to be careful, Mr. Trump asked Mr. Flynn when the two were scheduled to speak.Mr. Flynn replied it was Saturday — he had delayed it to fit in Mrs. May’s meeting for “protocol” as a United States ally, adding at length that Mr. Putin was impatient to chat.Mr. Trump, the person said, appeared irritated by the response.Still, the episode that did the most damage to the Trump-Flynn relationship occurred in early December when Mr. Flynn’s son, also named Michael, unleashed a series of tweets pushing a discredited conspiracy theory that Clinton associates had run a child sex-slave ring out of a Washington pizza restaurant.Mr. Trump told his staff to get rid of the younger Mr. Flynn, who had been hired by his father to help during the transition. But Mr. Trump did so reluctantly because of his loyalty during the campaign, when dozens of former military officials were dismissing Mr. Trump as too unstable to command.“I want him fired immediately,” Mr. Trump said in a muted rendition of his “You’re fired!” line in “The Apprentice,” according to two people with knowledge of the interaction.That has not stopped the general’s son from spouting off: On Saturday, at a time when Trump surrogates were pushing back on the idea that the executive order did not discriminate against any religion, the younger Mr. Flynn tweeted his approval of the policy, adding “#MuslimBan.” The tweet was subsequently deleted; his entire account disappeared later in the day.Still, the national security adviser has also continued to dabble in the kind of bomb-throwing behavior that concerns Mr. Trump’s allies, such as planning to attend an anti-Clinton “Deploraball” event at the time of the inauguration. He was urged to skip it by Trump allies, and ultimately agreed.Both Mr. Trump and Mr. Bannon still regard Mr. Flynn as an asset. “In the room and out of the room, Steve Bannon is General Flynn’s biggest defender,” said Kellyanne Conway, another top adviser to the president.But it is unclear when the maneuvers to reduce Mr. Flynn’s role began. Two Obama administration officials said Trump transition officials inquired about expanded national security roles for Mr. Bannon and Mr. Kushner at the earliest stages of the transition in November — before the younger Mr. Flynn became a liability — but after Mr. Flynn had begun to chafe on the nerves of his colleagues on the team.Mr. Flynn’s reputation has raised questions among some in the cabinet. Two weeks ago, both men held a meeting with Rex W. Tillerson, Mr. Trump’s pick to run the State Department, Mr. Mattis and Mike Pompeo, now the C.I.A. director, to discuss coordination — Mr. Flynn was invited but did not attend.Part of the meeting was devoted to discussing concerns about Mr. Flynn, according to an official with knowledge of it.
WASHINGTON — The whirlwind first week of Donald J. Trump’s presidency had all the bravura hallmarks of a Stephen K. Bannon production.It started with the doom-hued inauguration homily to “American carnage” in United States cities co-written by Mr. Bannon, followed a few days later by his “shut up” message to the news media. The week culminated with a blizzard of executive orders, mostly hatched by Mr. Bannon’s team and the White House policy adviser, Stephen Miller, aimed at disorienting the “enemy,” fulfilling campaign promises and distracting attention from Mr. Trump’s less than flawless debut.But the defining moment for Mr. Bannon came Saturday night in the form of an executive order giving the rumpled right-wing agitator a full seat on the “principals committee” of the National Security Council — while downgrading the roles of the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the director of national intelligence, who will now attend only when the council is considering issues in their direct areas of responsibilities. It is a startling elevation of a political adviser, to a status alongside the secretaries of state and defense, and over the president’s top military and intelligence advisers.In theory, the move put Mr. Bannon, a former Navy surface warfare officer, admiral’s aide, investment banker, Hollywood producer and Breitbart News firebrand, on the same level as his friend, Michael T. Flynn, the national security adviser, a former Pentagon intelligence chief who was Mr. Trump’s top adviser on national security issues before a series of missteps reduced his influence.But in terms of real influence, Mr. Bannon looms above almost everyone except the president’s son-in-law, Jared D. Kushner, in the Trumpian pecking order, according to interviews with two dozen Trump insiders and current and former national security officials. The move involving Mr. Bannon, as well as the boost in status to the White House homeland security adviser, Thomas P. Bossert, and Mr. Trump’s relationships with cabinet appointees like Defense Secretary Jim Mattis have essentially layered over Mr. Flynn.Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Bannon — whose Breitbart website was a magnet for white nationalists, antiglobalists and conspiracy theorists — always planned to participate in national security. Mr. Flynn welcomed his participation, Mr. Spicer said, but the general “led the reorganization of the N.S.C.” in order to streamline an antiquated and bloated bureaucracy.Former White House officials in both parties were shocked by the move.“The last place you want to put somebody who worries about politics is in a room where they’re talking about national security,” said Leon E. Panetta, a former White House chief of staff, defense secretary and C.I.A. director in two Democratic administrations.“I’ve never seen that happen, and it shouldn’t happen. It’s not like he has broad experience in foreign policy and national security issues. He doesn’t. His primary role is to control or guide the president’s conscience based on his campaign promises. That’s not what the National Security Council is supposed to be about.”That opinion was shared by President George W. Bush’s last chief of staff, Josh Bolten, who barred Karl Rove, Mr. Bush’s political adviser, from N.S.C. meetings. A president’s decisions made with those advisers, he told a conference audience in September, “involve life and death for the people in uniform” and should “not be tainted by any political decisions.”Susan E. Rice, President Barack Obama’s last national security adviser, called the arrangement “stone cold crazy” in a tweet posted Sunday.Mr. Spicer said the language the Trump White House used in its N.S.C. executive order is, with the exception of Mr. Bannon’s position — which was created during the transition — almost identical in content to one the Bush administration drafted in 2001. And Mr. Obama’s top political operative, David Axelrod, sat in on some N.S.C. meetings, he added.There were key differences. Mr. Axelrod never served as a permanent member as Mr. Bannon will now, though he sat in on some critical meetings, especially as Mr. Obama debated strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan. “It’s a profound shift,” Mr. Axelrod said. “I don’t know what his bona fides are to be the principal foreign policy adviser to the president.”But Mr. Bannon’s elevation does not merely reflect his growing influence on national security. It is emblematic of Mr. Trump’s trust on a range of political and ideological issues.During the campaign, the sly and provocative Mr. Bannon played a paradoxical role — calming the easily agitated candidate during his frequent rough patches and egging him on when he felt Mr. Trump needed to fire up the white working-class base. The president respects Mr. Bannon because he is independently wealthy and therefore does not need the job, and both men ascribe to a shoot-the-prisoners credo when put on the defensive, according to the former Trump campaign manager Corey Lewandowski.Mr. Bannon is a deft operator within the White House, and he has been praised by Republicans who view him skeptically as the most knowledgeable on policy around the president. But his stated preference for blowing things up — as opposed to putting them back together — may not translate to his new role.The hasty drafting of the immigration order, and its scattershot execution, brought a measure of Mr. Bannon’s chaotic and hyperaggressive political style to the more predictable administration of the federal government. Within hours of the edict, airport customs and border agents were detaining or blocking dozens of migrant families, some of whom had permanent resident status, until John F. Kelly, the new homeland security secretary, intervened.Mr. Kelly’s department had suggested green card holders be exempted from the order, but Mr. Bannon and Mr. Miller, a hard-liner on immigration, overruled him, according to two American officials.Mr. Priebus, speaking on NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Sunday indicated a softening of the stance, saying the order would not block “green card holders moving forward” — but said anyone seeking to enter the country from the listed countries would be subjected to tighter scrutiny.People close to Mr. Bannon said he is not accumulating power for power’s sake, but is instead helping to fill a staff leadership vacuum created, in part, by Mr. Flynn’s stumbling performance as national security adviser.Mr. Flynn still communicates with Mr. Trump frequently, and his staff has been assembling a version of the Presidential Daily Briefing for Mr. Trump, truncated but comprehensive, to be the president’s main source of national security information. During the campaign, he often had unfettered access to the candidate, who appreciated his brash style and contempt for Hillary Clinton, but during the transition, Mr. Flynn privately complained about having to share face time with others.Mr. Flynn “has the full confidence of the president and his team,” Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, said in an in email. Emails and phone calls to Mr. Flynn and his top aide were not returned.A president who likes generals and abhors political correctness, Mr. Trump found in Mr. Flynn — who joined Trump backers in an anti-Clinton “lock her up!” chant during the campaign — perhaps the most politically incorrect general this side of his hero, Gen. George S. Patton.But Mr. Flynn, a lifelong Democrat sacked as head of the Pentagon’s intelligence arm after clashing with Obama administration officials in 2014, has gotten on the nerves of Mr. Trump and other administration officials because of his sometimes overbearing demeanor, and has further diminished his internal standing by presiding over a chaotic and opaque N.S.C. transition process that prioritized the hiring of military officials over civilian experts recommended to him by his own team.Mr. Flynn’s penchant for talking too much was on display on Friday in a meeting with Theresa May, the British prime minister, according to two people with direct knowledge of the events.When Mrs. May said that she understood wanting a dialogue with Mr. Putin but stressed the need to be careful, Mr. Trump asked Mr. Flynn when the two were scheduled to speak.Mr. Flynn replied it was Saturday — he had delayed it to fit in Mrs. May’s meeting for “protocol” as a United States ally, adding at length that Mr. Putin was impatient to chat.Mr. Trump, the person said, appeared irritated by the response.Still, the episode that did the most damage to the Trump-Flynn relationship occurred in early December when Mr. Flynn’s son, also named Michael, unleashed a series of tweets pushing a discredited conspiracy theory that Clinton associates had run a child sex-slave ring out of a Washington pizza restaurant.Mr. Trump told his staff to get rid of the younger Mr. Flynn, who had been hired by his father to help during the transition. But Mr. Trump did so reluctantly because of his loyalty during the campaign, when dozens of former military officials were dismissing Mr. Trump as too unstable to command.“I want him fired immediately,” Mr. Trump said in a muted rendition of his “You’re fired!” line in “The Apprentice,” according to two people with knowledge of the interaction.That has not stopped the general’s son from spouting off: On Saturday, at a time when Trump surrogates were pushing back on the idea that the executive order did not discriminate against any religion, the younger Mr. Flynn tweeted his approval of the policy, adding “#MuslimBan.” The tweet was subsequently deleted; his entire account disappeared later in the day.Still, the national security adviser has also continued to dabble in the kind of bomb-throwing behavior that concerns Mr. Trump’s allies, such as planning to attend an anti-Clinton “Deploraball” event at the time of the inauguration. He was urged to skip it by Trump allies, and ultimately agreed.Both Mr. Trump and Mr. Bannon still regard Mr. Flynn as an asset. “In the room and out of the room, Steve Bannon is General Flynn’s biggest defender,” said Kellyanne Conway, another top adviser to the president.But it is unclear when the maneuvers to reduce Mr. Flynn’s role began. Two Obama administration officials said Trump transition officials inquired about expanded national security roles for Mr. Bannon and Mr. Kushner at the earliest stages of the transition in November — before the younger Mr. Flynn became a liability — but after Mr. Flynn had begun to chafe on the nerves of his colleagues on the team.Mr. Flynn’s reputation has raised questions among some in the cabinet. Two weeks ago, both men held a meeting with Rex W. Tillerson, Mr. Trump’s pick to run the State Department, Mr. Mattis and Mike Pompeo, now the C.I.A. director, to discuss coordination — Mr. Flynn was invited but did not attend.Part of the meeting was devoted to discussing concerns about Mr. Flynn, according to an official with knowledge of it.
Barbara Hale, the Emmy Award-winning actress who typified the ideal mid-20th-century secretary as the beautiful, loyal, confident but soft-spoken Della Street on the television series “Perry Mason,” died on Thursday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 94.Her death was confirmed by Jacqueline Stander, the agent for the actor William Katt, Ms. Hale’s son.Ms. Hale had been working in Hollywood for well over a decade when she was offered the supporting role on “Perry Mason,” the CBS courtroom series starring Raymond Burr as an unbeatable criminal lawyer. The show ran from 1957 to 1966, with Della — Ms. Hale in classic businesslike fashions and her trademark short, dark hair — as a steadying and infinitely reliable presence, if not a constant one.“Della wasn’t really a very big role,” Ms. Hale told the New Jersey newspaper The Record in 1986. “I had six days, six lines and six wardrobe changes a show. When I changed clothes, it signified another day had gone by in the script.”It was important enough, however, for Ms. Hale to receive the Emmy Award for best supporting actress in a dramatic series in 1959. In 1985 she and Burr were reunited for a television movie, “Perry Mason Returns,” which won such high ratings that it led to 29 more TV movies starring the same characters.Some viewers speculated about a possible romance between Perry and Della. Offscreen, Ms. Hale and Mr. Burr were close friends. An avid gardener, he even named an orchid for her.After Mr. Burr died in 1993, three more films in the series were made, starring other actors. (They were known as “Perry Mason Mysteries,” but the role of Perry Mason was not recast.) The last was “A Perry Mason Mystery: The Case of the Jealous Jokester” (1995), with Hal Holbrook and Ms. Hale. It was her last screen appearance.Barbara Hale was born on April 18, 1922, in DeKalb, Ill., the younger of two daughters of Luther Ezra Hale, a horticulturist, and the former Willa Calvin. Two years later the family moved to nearby Rockford.After graduating from Rockford High School, where she was May queen, Ms. Hale went to Chicago to study commercial art at the Chicago Academy of Fine Arts. Her dream job, she said years later, was to be an animator for the Disney studio. But at 19 she was spotted on a street corner by a models’ agent, who found her work locally (one early job was posing for a comic strip) and was so impressed with his discovery that he sent her photographs to RKO Studios.RKO offered her a train ticket to Hollywood and a six-month contract. Arriving in 1942, she made her film debut as “girl at party” in a 1943 courtroom comedy, “Gildersleeve’s Bad Day,” the second in a series of movies based on the popular radio series “The Great Gildersleeve.” Her first credited role came later that year, in “Higher and Higher,” a musical comedy with a cast that also included Frank Sinatra.Over the next 15 years, Ms. Hale made more than three dozen mostly forgettable movies (“The Boy With Green Hair,” in 1948, was an exception) and a score of guest appearances on television series. Then Perry Mason came into her life.During the almost two decades between the end of the series and the beginning of the Perry Mason television movies, she did commercials for Amana appliances, made five films and appeared on a dozen or so television shows. She was Dean Martin’s wife in “Airport” (1970) and appeared with Mr. Katt, her son, in the 1978 surfer film “Big Wednesday” and on his 1980s TV series, “The Greatest American Hero.” (Mr. Katt also appeared in nine of the Perry Mason television movies.)Ms. Hale married Bill Williams, a fellow RKO actor, in 1946, and they had three children. Mr. Williams, whose real surname was Katt, died in 1992. In addition to Mr. Katt, she is survived by two daughters, Jody and Juanita Katt; six grandchildren; three great-grandchildren; and two half brothers.She never seemed unhappy about being identified with one character throughout her career. In 1993 she told The Chicago Tribune that Della Street was “a woman who knew what everybody was thinking.”“She was informed and very observant of everything that went on,” she continued. “That was my challenge as an actress, to be a necessary part of the office without being too aggressive.”Ms. Hale also confessed that she had never learned shorthand and could type only 33 words a minute.
PHILADELPHIA — In a spacious meeting room with broad, cathedral-like windows and a vaulted ceiling, 450 high school students and their teachers sat side by side on long wooden benches in sustained and still quiet for 40 minutes. The silence was interrupted only by the occasional cough or gently cleared throat.The group — the student body, faculty and staff of William Penn Charter School — gathers once a week for this noiseless period of reflection called “meeting for worship,” a Quaker practice that William Penn would recognize from 1689, when he founded the school here.Such a mellow setting might not figure to be a breeding ground for nationally prominent athletes, but Penn Charter, as it is known, has recently produced a handful of professional players and scores of top collegiate athletes, including Matt Ryan, the quarterback who will lead the Atlanta Falcons in the Super Bowl on Sunday.A select private school with an enrollment of 955 from prekindergarten through 12th grade, it is far from a jock powerhouse; more famous athletes have come out of other high schools in the Philadelphia area. But Penn Charter’s Quaker roots, spotlighted in recent weeks by Ryan’s ascent through the N.F.L. playoffs, provide something of a counterintuitive approach to developing breakout sports talent.For one thing, the very notion of a standout athlete seems paradoxical here, since a central Quaker principle is the belief that no individual matters more than the community. The school’s ethos discourages self-aggrandizement or drawing attention to oneself, and Ryan remains one of the most low-key superstars in the league. Penn Charter athletes learn to celebrate team victories rather than personal accomplishments. A football player scoring a touchdown has been instructed to find a referee and simply hand him the football. No touchdown dances.When I visited here last week and asked where or how Penn Charter had recognized Ryan’s athletic achievements — perhaps with a big trophy case containing a retired jersey, all-American award plaques and his four N.F.L. Pro Bowl citations — school officials chuckled.“We don’t do that at Penn Charter,” said Ryan’s high school football coach, Brian McCloskey.There were doubts that anyone had even thought to save Ryan’s jersey.“The notion of a shrine to someone is just not who we are,” said Darryl J. Ford, head of school.Yet athletics remain fundamental and indispensable to education at Penn Charter, where every student is required to play at least one sport per year.Each student must also partake in a second school activity, which is often another sport but can also involve participation in a variety of performing or visual arts offerings.Penn Charter draws students from six counties in Pennsylvania and New Jersey, luring them with its pristine 46-acre campus in Northwest Philadelphia and the offer of 25 sports. (Athletic scholarships are prohibited.)And the Quakers — the nickname of the sports teams — like to win.Penn Charter has claimed a record 80 league championships in football and basketball alone, helped by recent graduates like Ryan, Carolina Panthers cornerback Daryl Worley, the former N.B.A. players Sean Singletary and Rob Kurz and Notre Dame tackle Mike McGlinchey, who some consider the best offensive lineman in college football.It has been the home for luminaries in other sports as well, including baseball and swimming, most recently Reece Whitley, who is one of swimming’s up-and-comers.Not surprisingly, school officials are often asked if Quakerism, with a chief tenet that promotes peace, is not antithetical to heated competition, especially in fierce contact sports like football, men’s lacrosse or wrestling.“There is a notion that competition is antithetical to us all getting along,” said Ford, Penn Charter’s chief administrator. But Ford called this line of reasoning an oversimplification of Quaker doctrines, insisting that there is nothing wrong with striving to achieve if it is kept in perspective.“If competition is interfering with one’s relationship with the Divine, then competition is a problem,” he said. “But competition itself is not a problem.”He added: “I want our students to experience winning. And we’re not the only Quaker school with football.”There are roughly 80 Quaker educational institutions nationwide, Ford said. Dozens play football. The percentage of Quaker students and teachers at Penn Charter is small, between 5 percent and 10 percent, said Beth Glascott, the assistant head of school. New faculty members who are not Quakers attend a two-week workshop on Quakerism.“There’s nothing in our games or practices that counteracts Quaker teachings,” said Harold Anderson, a Penn Charter senior who plays football and is on the wrestling team. “We want to win, but at the end of the day there are always bigger goals like personal accountability.”Emma Grugan, a senior who participates in swimming and crew, said she had seen her Penn Charter teams exhibit better sportsmanship than travel teams she had been a part of.“Our coaches are usually also our teachers, so we know what’s expected of us,” Grugan said. “It’s taught daily.”But the mix of athletic competition and school precepts emphasizing humility, empathy, social responsibility and peaceful conflict resolution can produce unforeseen outcomes.Ryan, raised in a Roman Catholic family, traveled 27 miles from his home in Exton, Pa., to attend Penn Charter.“We did not know this beforehand, but the environment at Penn Charter helped shaped Matt in permanent ways,” said his father, Mike Ryan. “You don’t have to be a Quaker for the Quaker practices and beliefs to make sense. It’s a good way to live.”McGlinchey, 6 feet 7 inches and 310 pounds, was obviously a noticeable presence in a graduating class of about 100 students.“But that’s the thing. You’re one person in a small community and that brings you down to earth,” McGlinchey said. “You’re never bigger than the whole.”The tuition currently ranges from $21,800 for prekindergarten to $35,150 for the Upper School, or high school. Nearly 42 percent of students receive need-based financial aid, which totaled $10.3 million this year. In keeping with Quaker tenets of equality, Penn Charter strives for socioeconomic diversity — 34.4 percent of its students are minorities, with African-Americans making up about 15 percent of the student body.And for centuries, segregated by age but never by background, all students congregate in the large meeting room for their 40 minutes of quiet reflection every week. While the meetings always begin in silence, they can eventually be punctuated by the thoughts of anyone in the room who has something to share.School officials concede that the meeting is sometimes viewed as an imposition by younger students, but say this tends not to be a lasting attitude.“Invariably, when alums come back here, the thing they say they miss the most is our weekly meeting,” said Travis Larrabee, the high school director. “In what other part of society do you sit in silence with 500 other people?”For several years, Tony McDevitt lined up at running back behind Matt Ryan at Penn Charter. McDevitt went to Duke, where he became an all-American lacrosse player.“When I was a freshman at Penn Charter, I remember going to the meetings and saying to myself: ‘This is crazy, get me out of here,’” McDevitt said. “But I learned to appreciate what was going on. I liked the time to reflect. And by my senior year, I was standing up and offering my thoughts.”McDevitt has remained close with Ryan, traveling to Falcons games and reuniting with his former classmate in the football off-season.“From time to time, we’ve talked about those Quaker meetings,” McDevitt said. “It’s amazing. You miss it and value it. It stays with you.”
Television viewers of this year’s Super Bowl on Feb. 5 may notice something unusual amid the usual onslaught of macho-themed commercials for beer, snack chips and pickup trucks.In a 60-second ad scheduled to run shortly before kickoff, the actor John Malkovich appears as a fashion designer named John Malkovich who discovers that the web domain JohnMalkovich.com is controlled by another John Malkovich — this one a fisherman behind the “ULTIMATE Fishing Site!!”“How is it that JohnMalkovich.com is taken?” Mr. Malkovich (the actor) asks, sitting before a computer in what appears to be a Paris atelier.His elegant French assistant stops draping a dress form to answer: “Somebody already snatched it.”“But I’m him,” the actor says. “There is a film about me being me.”Is this a meta joke from one of Hollywood’s most clever shape-shifters? Yes and no.The ad, which was released online Wednesday, is for Squarespace, the website builder and web publishing platform, as part of the company’s “Domains” campaign to encourage people to register sites before they’re scooped up by someone else. JohnMalkovich.com isn’t the real online home of a champion bass fisherman.Indeed, Mr. Malkovich himself uses the site to sell his men’s wear. And he isn’t pretending to be a fashion designer.“I always draw everything, correct prototypes, choose accessories, buttons, details,” Mr. Malkovich said of his process in a phone interview.He recalled being in Vienna a few years ago, and visiting a museum there and being inspired by the painter Gustav Klimt.“I remember seeing a painting called ‘The Piano Teacher,’” he said, “and going away from there and saying: ‘O.K., if we saw that kind of longish frock coat today, what would it look like? How would it be cut now?’”While Mr. Malkovich, 63, is known for his acting onstage and in movies like “Dangerous Liaisons,” “Burn After Reading” and “Being John Malkovich,” he has long pursued a side career in fashion. In the early 2000s, he had a short-lived men’s wear line called Uncle Kimono, and made a documentary, “Flipping Uncle Kimono,” about a fashion show he planned to stage in Milan using judo fighters instead of models.In 2010, he started a second line, Technobohemian, that featured Italian-made sportswear like woven shirts in fanciful patterns, cotton pants and ties.But the new line, he said, is the first time he is designing under his own name, and the Squarespace e-commerce site has given him the ability to circumvent fashion buyers and some complications of the industry.“I never had an agent or professional organization behind me,” Mr. Malkovich said. “It’s just something I did. Now we’ll be set up to actually sell directly to people. That’s what I always wanted.”His clothes have a theatrical quality, and, like the man himself, exist with no consideration to current trends. For shirting, he is a fan of the no-collar band collar, and his Birdbath Sweater ($580) has an unusual shawl collar laced with red ribbon. A red scarf of a silk-cotton blend ($139) is adorned with ghostly figures hand-drawn by Mr. Malkovich.“They’re not this fall’s colors or this spring’s cut,” he said of his clothes. “That doesn’t really interest me.”He added: “People have asked: ‘Who is this for? Is it for you? Who is the person who would wear it?’ I’m probably not very good at answering that.”Mr. Malkovich finds the most pleasure in the process. For many years, he has attended the fabric fair in Paris known as Première Vision, where he spends hours selecting fabrics. He designs in a Paris atelier owned by his business partners, or, if he is traveling for work, in hotel rooms.A three-minute film commissioned by Squarespace and released this month, “Journey,” captured Mr. Malkovich’s creative process and the struggles he’s faced to get people to take him seriously as a designer.A second Squarespace ad featuring Mr. Malkovich will air during the Super Bowl, though the actor will not be watching. Instead, he will be in Paris, preparing for the fabric show, which runs from Feb. 7 to 9.Nor will Mr. Malkovich be in New York to attend the coming New York Fashion Week: Men’s shows.“Since I don’t follow this season’s trends, I’m not so motivated,” he said. “The whole blah blah blah of the runway shows — it’s not a form that rivets me.”
When my son first negotiated for the right to take the New York subway to school alone, I thought I was agreeing that he could take a very particular train from one specific stop to another specific stop at certain times of day (and after all, if he didn’t arrive, I thought, the school would know something was wrong). He thought I was saying, the city is yours, my boy, go out and explore, now that you’re old enough to ride the subway by yourself.And the thing is, of course, he was ultimately right, and that is what I was ultimately saying. I just meant to say it a little more slowly, and drag the whole process out over a much longer time. We negotiated it, more quickly than I might have hoped, and with a bunch of qualifications on my part which he saw as silly parental nit-picking. And in principle, he was right: The city was his.Many of the ongoing negotiations and even the battles of child-rearing are scripted for us, rolled into the daily experience of this most daily job; you get up every morning as a parent and start over with a child who is one day older than the child you had yesterday. We set limits, that’s what parents do, and children push at them, according to their temperaments and their circumstances and their peer groups.Your child will (most likely) want to go places without you, and you’ll say no, it’s not safe, it’s too far, and your child will push back and at some point, you’ll give way and renegotiate. Your child will want to hang out with people you don’t feel you know, or watch movies you don’t think are appropriate (too scary too violent too sexy too disturbing). Your child will want, step by step, to grow up.The long arc of this parental negotiation is about losing, gracefully, over time. Eventually, your child is going to get to decide about going places — alone, with friends, at smart or dumb times of the day — and hanging out with people and watching movies — or any other kind of watching or reading or game-playing. We all know this, right? When we say, you can’t go to that party, you shouldn’t see that movie, we aren’t definitively winning a battle and heroically setting once-and-for-all parameters. We’re slowly and thoughtfully negotiating a time-lapse surrender, a handover of increasing power and independence, and we’re making decisions along the way about when and how and what makes sense.We have to start from the idea that eventually our children are going to be adult players. We want them to get there, and to get there with enough good sense — and enough fine sensibility — that they use their adult powers wisely.So that means they need trial runs and training wheels, supervised adventures of every kind. And it also means, as we all know, that real adventures are always at least a little bit unsupervised. There’s a famous quote out there about how good judgment comes from experience but experience comes from bad judgment (it is variously attributed to Mark Twain, Will Rogers and a range of others).You try to keep your children safe, but you acknowledge that real safety involves being able to face risks and decisions on their own. You grit your teeth and replay the eternal parental conversations in which it is revealed that nobody else has parents who make such stupid rules, that everyone else is allowed to do the thing that you are restricting. But you also acknowledge that ultimately, these are all losing battles, and that the only thing you’re really fighting for is time and timing, and the hope that you can transfer some of your own preferences and prejudices to even a resistant child.I am one of those pedants who is irritated by what I consider the improper use of the word “hopefully,” and it was one of my proudest moments as a parent when my college-age child told me that whenever anyone used “hopefully” to mean “it is to be hoped,” rather than, “in a hopeful manner,” he would imagine me making a face. He didn’t agree that it was incorrect, he said, accurately pointing out that the usage has been widely accepted. Except, whenever he heard it, he knew it would bother me. I didn’t mind that he disagreed, so delighted was I to realize that I had managed to install my idiosyncratic prejudice to serve as my son’s superego. He was free to say and write whatever he wanted, he was flying solo, but I was still along for the ride.Our children will eventually go wherever they like, and with whomever they like. They will watch whatever they wish, play whatever games appeal to them. As parents, we cling hopefully to the small moral victories that accrue whenever, for example, we manage to plant our parental sensibilities in their brains, so that they hear our voices even when we aren’t there.
PARIS — France chose an idealistic, traditional left-leaning candidate in Sunday’s primary to represent the Socialist and center-left parties in the presidential election this spring.The candidate, Benoît Hamon, 49, who ran on the slogan that he would “make France’s heart beat,” bested Manuel Valls, the former prime minister, whose campaign has promoted more free-market policies and who has a strong law-and-order background.Mr. Hamon appeared to have won by a wide margin, with incomplete returns showing him with an estimated 58 percent of the vote to Mr. Valls’s 41 percent.“Tonight the left holds its head up high again; it is looking to the future,” Mr. Hamon said, addressing his supporters.“Our country needs the left, but a modern, innovative left,” he said.Mr. Hamon’s victory was the clearest sign yet that voters on the left want a break with the policies of President François Hollande, who in December announced that he would not seek re-election. However, Mr. Hamon’s strong showing is unlikely to change widespread assessments that left-leaning candidates have little chance of making it into the second round of voting in the general election.The first round of the general election is set for April 23 and the runoff for May 7.The Socialist Party is deeply divided, and one measure of its lack of popular enthusiasm was the relatively low number of people voting. About two million people voted in the second round of the primary on Sunday, in contrast with about 2.9 million in the second round of the last presidential primary on the left, in 2011.However, much of the conventional wisdom over how the elections will go has been thrown into question over the past week, because the leading candidate, François Fillon, who represents the main right-wing party, the Republicans, was accused of paying his wife large sums of money to work as his parliamentary aide. While nepotism is legal in the French political system, it is not clear that she actually did any work. Prosecutors who specialize in financial malfeasance are reviewing the case.France’s electoral system allows multiple candidates to run for president in the first round of voting, but only the top two vote-getters go on to a second round.Mr. Hamon is entering a race that is already crowded on the left, with candidates who include Jean-Luc Mélenchon on the far left, and Emmanuel Macron, an independent who served as economy minister in Mr. Hollande’s government and who embraces more free-market policies.Unless he decides to withdraw, Mr. Fillon, the mainstream right candidate, will also run, as will the extreme right candidate Marine Le Pen. The two have been expected to go to the runoff.Mr. Hamon’s victory can be attributed at least in part to his image as an idealist and traditional leftist candidate who appeals to union voters as well as more environmentally concerned and socially liberal young people. Unlike Mr. Valls, he also clearly distanced himself from some of Mr. Hollande’s more unpopular policies, especially the economic ones.Thomas Kekenbosch, 22, a student and one of the leaders of the group the Youth With Benoît Hamon, said Mr. Hamon embodied a new hope for those on the left.“We have a perspective; we have something to do, to build,” Mr. Kekenbosch said.Mr. Hollande had disappointed many young people because under him the party abandoned ideals, such as support for workers, that many left-leaning voters believe in, according to Mr. Kekenbosch.Mr. Hollande’s government, under pressure from the European Union to meet budget restraints, struggled to pass labor code reforms to make the market more attractive to foreign investors and also to encourage French businesses to expand in France.The measures ultimately passed after weeks of strikes, but they were watered down and generated little concrete progress in improving France’s roughly 10 percent unemployment rate and its nearly 25 percent youth joblessness rate.Mr. Hamon strongly endorses a stimulus approach to improving the economy and has promised to phase in a universal income, which would especially help young people looking for work, but would also supplement the livelihood of low-paid French workers. The end goal would be to have everyone receive 750 euros per month (about $840).“We have someone that trusts us,” Mr. Kekenbosch said, “who says: ‘I give you enough to pay for your studies. You can have a scholarship which spares you from working at McDonald’s on provisional contracts for 4 years.”Mr. Hamon advocates phasing out diesel fuel and encouraging drivers to replace vehicles that use petroleum products with electrical ones.His leftist pedigree began early. His father worked at an arsenal in Brest, a city in the far west of Brittany, and his mother worked off and on as a secretary. He was an early member of the Movement of Young Socialists, and he has continued to work closely with them through his political life. He also worked for Martine Aubry, now the mayor of Lille and a former Socialist Party leader.
Bernard S. Redmont, a longtime foreign correspondent who was blacklisted in the United States during the McCarthy period, and who in 1968 broke the news that the North Vietnamese were willing to enter into peace talks with the United States, died on Jan. 23 in Canton, Mass. He was 98.The death was confirmed by his son, Dennis.Mr. Redmont, the Paris bureau chief of the Westinghouse Broadcasting Company at the time, had long been pestering the North Vietnamese mission in Paris for an interview, when he was abruptly summoned on Jan. 3, 1968, for what he was told would be “a conversation.”A government official, whom he was not permitted to identify, informed him that North Vietnam was ready to start peace talks if the United States halted its bombing campaign and other acts of war.Mr. Redmont put out a bulletin. The story was picked up by publications around the world and made the covers of Time and Newsweek.In May, after President Lyndon B. Johnson had ordered a limited halt to the bombing, the two sides entered into talks in Paris that led to the war’s end five years later.For the story, the Overseas Press Club of America gave Mr. Redmont its award in 1969 for best radio reporting from abroad.He was born Bernard Sidney Rothenberg on Nov. 18, 1918, in Manhattan and grew up in the Bronx and Brooklyn. His parents, Morris Rothenberg and the former Bessie Kamerman, had come to the United States from Poland in their early teens. His father ran a small shop in the garment district.At City College, Bernard was editor of The Campus, the school newspaper, and class president of the American Student Union, the most radical of the school’s political organizations. After earning a bachelor’s degree in 1938, he enrolled in Columbia University’s Graduate School of Journalism, where, on the advice of the dean, he changed his last name — too long and too Jewish, he was told.He was awarded a master’s degree in 1939 and, after receiving a Pulitzer Traveling Fellowship, spent time in Europe and Mexico.In 1940, he married Joan Rothenberg (no relation), who died last year. In addition to his son, formerly the Rome bureau chief for The Associated Press, he is survived by a daughter, Jane Redmont; two grandsons; and four great-grandchildren.Returning to the United States, Mr. Redmont went to work for The Evening Telegram in Herkimer, N.Y. “I did everything from writing editorials to laying out the front page to sweeping the office and sharpening the pencils,” he told The Canton Citizen in 2011.In 1940, he was hired as an editor by the Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, headed by Nelson A. Rockefeller and with its headquarters in Washington. The agency broadcast news stories to Latin America in an effort to bolster hemispheric solidarity against the Axis powers.Mr. Redmont enlisted in the Marine Corps in 1943 and was a combat correspondent in the South Pacific during World War II. He was awarded the Purple Heart for shrapnel wounds sustained during the battle for the Marshall Islands.After the war, in 1946, he was hired as the first Latin America bureau chief for World News, which the conservative publisher David Lawrence had created as an international-affairs counterpart to his magazine U.S. News. (They merged in 1948 to become U.S. News & World Report.) Mr. Redmont was sent to Buenos Aires, where he had a ringside seat for the presidency of Juan Perón before being transferred to Paris in the early 1950s.Back in the United States, trouble brewed. In November 1945, Elizabeth T. Bentley, a former courier for a Soviet spy ring, had identified Mr. Redmont to the F.B.I. as “a contact” and later as a Communist, accusations that became public in 1948.Alarmed, Mr. Redmont issued a statement denying that he had ever been a Communist. He knew Ms. Bentley, he said, through William Remington, a government economist and old friend, who had introduced her as Helen Johnson, a reporter and researcher for the liberal newspaper P.M. and other publications.In interviews before the war, he said he had discussed the programs of the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs with her but had revealed to her only information that was available to the public.He was later cleared by the House Committee on Un-American Activities and a grand jury. When called as a defense witness in the perjury trial of Mr. Remington in 1951, however, he faced withering cross-examination.“If you’re trying to prove that I was a radical at college, I’ll answer that,” Mr. Redmont said. “I was a radical at college.”He denied that he had named his son Dennis Foster in tribute to the Communist Party leaders Eugene Dennis and William Z. Foster.In 2009, however, in their book, “Spies: The Rise and Fall of the K.G.B. in America,” John Earl Haynes, Harvey Klehr and Alexander Vassiliev cited Soviet intelligence reports from the 1940s that identified Mr. Redmont as a Communist Party member known as Berny and as a minor source of information for Ms. Bentley under the code name Mon.Some historians have challenged the K.G.B. files as ambiguous, arguing that many entries were the product of wishful thinking or exaggeration on the part of Soviet agents trying to please their bosses. In a 2008 interview, Mr. Redmont said, “I am not now a spy, and I have never been a spy.” He added, “It was a very sad and poisoned period in American history where an allegation was equivalent to a conviction. I’d like to think we’ve moved beyond that, but maybe we haven’t.”Immediately after testifying, Mr. Redmont was fired by Mr. Lawrence, and his passport was seized by the State Department, leaving him stranded in Paris.His career ruined, he struggled to patch together a living as a freelance writer and editor. He was a press agent for a nightclub, and as a talent scout for an impresario he negotiated a South American tour for the singer Charles Trenet.“At one point, I set a record in amassing the largest number of jobs in Paris, with the lowest aggregate income,” he wrote in his 1992 memoir, “Risks Worth Taking: The Odyssey of a Foreign Correspondent.”In time, his career recovered. After reporting for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and serving as Paris bureau chief for Westinghouse from 1961 to 1976, he made the transition to television, joining CBS News, for which he was the bureau chief in Moscow and a senior correspondent in Paris.He returned to the United States in 1981 to become a professor of journalism at Boston University’s College of Communications. A year later, he was named dean.Mr. Redmont resigned as dean in 1986 after clashing with the university’s president, John Silber, over the Afghan Media Project, a program to train Afghan refugees as journalists at a center in Peshawar, Pakistan. Mr. Redmont had proposed training them in Boston, arguing that political conflict and tribal rivalries made Peshawar too dangerous. He lost the battle to Mr. Silber, who demanded his resignation but gave him the title of dean emeritus.
A group of brain performance centers backed by Betsy DeVos, the nominee for education secretary, promotes results that are nothing short of stunning: improvements reported by 91 percent of patients with depression, 90 percent with attention deficit disorder, 90 percent with anxiety.The treatment offered by Neurocore, a business in which Ms. DeVos and her husband, Dick, are the chief investors, consists of showing movies to patients and interrupting them when the viewers become distracted, in an effort to retrain their brains. With eight centers in Michigan and Florida and plans to expand, Neurocore says it has assessed about 10,000 people for health problems that often require medication.“Is it time for a mind makeover?” the company asks in its advertising. “All it takes is science.”But a review of Neurocore’s claims and interviews with medical experts suggest its conclusions are unproven and its methods questionable.Neurocore has not published its results in peer-reviewed medical literature. Its techniques — including mapping brain waves to diagnose problems and using neurofeedback, a form of biofeedback, to treat them — are not considered standards of care for the majority of the disorders it treats, including autism. Social workers, not doctors, perform assessments, and low-paid technicians with little training apply the methods to patients, including children with complex problems.In interviews, nearly a dozen child psychiatrists and psychologists with expertise in autism and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or A.D.H.D., expressed caution regarding some of Neurocore’s assertions, advertising and methods.“This causes real harm to children because it diverts attention, hope and resources,” said Dr. Matthew Siegel, a child psychiatrist at Maine Behavioral Healthcare and associate professor at Tufts School of Medicine, who co-wrote autism practice standards for the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry. “If there were something out there that was uniquely powerful and wonderful, we’d all be using it.”Neurocore rejects any suggestion that its treatments do not work as advertised. Dr. Majid Fotuhi, Neurocore chief medical officer, said, “There is significant research to support the efficacy of neurofeedback for a variety of mental and behavioral health issues.”Ms. DeVos, whose appointment as education secretary is expected to be voted on Tuesday morning by a Senate committee, had said she would leave Neurocore’s board, but would retain her investment in the company, which she valued at $5 million to $25 million, according to documents filed this month with the Office of Government Ethics.Last Friday, a group of Democratic senators sent Ms. DeVos a letter saying that her financial disclosure raised questions about potential conflicts. The senators were skeptical of the DeVos family trusts, and also raised questions about Neurocore, which called itself educational in a trademark dispute. The lawmakers asked Ms. DeVos if she would commit that she and her family members would not “benefit financially from actions” she could take in her new role.At Neurocore’s clinics, children and adults with A.D.H.D., anxiety, depression, autism and other psychological and neurological diagnoses sit before monitors watching movies or television shows ranging from “Frozen” to “Mad Men,” with sensors attached to their scalps and earlobes.Whenever they become distracted or anxious, the video automatically freezes. That feedback, known as conditioning, leads the vast majority of clients, company officers say, to experience improvements in their disorders after 30 45-minute sessions costing about $2,000. Some insurers cover the treatments, while others have denied payment.One denial concerned a 50-year-old woman with anxiety and migraines. The insurance company noted that it covered biofeedback for only a few conditions. An outside review commissioned by the Michigan insurance department supported the decision that biofeedback was not, in her case, an established therapy or medically necessary.Experts said that thus far, studies of neurofeedback for attention deficit disorder were unconvincing. It “isn’t shown to be better than placebo, and the effects are not long-lasting,” said Sandra K. Loo, director of pediatric neuropsychology at the David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles, who has written about neurofeedback and quantitative EEG, a brain-wave test that Neurocore performs as part of its diagnosis.“People pay a ton of money,” Dr. Loo said. “They’re desperate to help their kids. Many are desperate to not give medications.”Dr. L. Eugene Arnold, an emeritus professor of psychiatry at Ohio State University who is enrolling children in a large, blind, controlled trial of neurofeedback — the main approach Neurocore says it uses in its sessions — said the idea was theoretically appealing, but there was not yet solid evidence of its effectiveness for A.D.H.D. Neurocore’s claims for the treatments “poison the well,” he said. “They oversell it.”He and other experts warned of potential side effects including headaches and disrupted sleep.Federal oversight of the field is minimal. “When it comes to treatments like this, there’s no formal body,” said Scott O. Lilienfeld, a professor of psychology at Emory University. “This has been a big problem. We don’t have an F.D.A. for psychotherapies,” he said, referring to the Food and Drug Administration.Over the past year, the Federal Trade Commission has begun to crack down on some companies promoting the successes of brain training programs for treating a variety of problems.Last January, Lumos Labs, the creator of Lumosity games, agreed to pay a $2 million fine over advertising claims that said its educational-oriented games could help children perform better in school by targeting specific areas of the brain. A few months later, the F.T.C. imposed sanctions on the developers of the LearningRx “brain training” programs for advertisements that claimed its product could “permanently improve serious health conditions” like A.D.H.D., autism and dementia.At Neurocore, patients range from young children with A.D.H.D., to older adults who are concerned about memory health, to athletes wanting to improve their performance. Neurocore promotes its ties to the Orlando Magic, which is owned by the DeVos family, and other professional athletes have appeared in advertisements for the company.Dr. Fotuhi, Neurocore’s chief medical officer, said that there were no physicians on site at the clinics, but social workers supervise lower-level technicians, who administer the neurofeedback. Employment ads show that Neurocore’s social workers are offered less than $20 an hour to start, yet are responsible for diagnostic assessments of patients with complex problems.One technician, Bashar Salah, who worked for Neurocore as a new college graduate during the summer of 2015 in Sterling Heights, Mich., said some of his colleagues were still students. He earned $10 or $11 an hour, he said, “better than working at McDonald’s or Wendy’s, or a lot of other places that paid roughly minimum wage.”Mr. Salah said he had known nothing about biofeedback before starting the job, but received training at Neurocore, where the employees seemed “interested in improving people’s lives.”Amanda Farmer, who said she worked as a technician at a Neurocore center in Okemos, Mich., for eight months in 2012, watched potential clients get a hard sell.“A lot of people were skeptical, and they gloss over any of the real questions: ‘Are you sure? This seems like a lot of money. What happens if it doesn’t do anything?’” Ms. Farmer recalled. Other current and former employees expressed similar misgivings.Experts say there is not much standardization in the field of biofeedback, and techniques vary.Dr. Fotuhi has impressive credentials: an M.D. from Harvard and Ph.D. in neuroscience from Johns Hopkins. However, his short-lived previous venture, NeurExpand Brain Centers in Maryland, folded after Medicare refused to reimburse services and demanded repayment for lack of scientific evidence of their effectiveness, Dr. Fotuhi said in 2015 to Bethesda Magazine.In an interview, Dr. Fotuhi said Neurocore’s chief executive, Mark Murrison, who has been at the company for about two years, “has an emphasis on research and development and using science-based protocols.” He said the company would be publishing its results in peer-reviewed scientific literature soon.“We are proud that our clients are highly satisfied with the care they receive and that we are able to help transform the lives of our clients for the better,” Dr. Fotuhi added in a statement.Ms. DeVos maintains her interest in Neurocore even as she said she would divest from 102 companies and investment funds, including a family vehicle that backs business start-ups. Ms. DeVos and her husband are invested in Neurocore through the Windquest Group, their family office.Experts said that Ms. DeVos, as a result of the investment, might have to recuse herself from discussions about the efficacy of using brain-training strategies to help school-age children. A spokesman for Ms. DeVos, however, disagreed that her stake in Neurocore was problematic.“We reject the notion that the judgment of the Office of Government Ethics is incapable of identifying potential conflicts of interests, or that the judgment of the professionals who work there should be supplemented or supplanted by personal opinions and partisan recommendations,” said Ed Patru, a spokesman for Ms. DeVos.Ms. DeVos is expected to receive enough votes from the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee — and eventually the full Senate — for confirmation. The nomination of Ms. DeVos, an outspoken critic of public education who favors charter schools, has antagonized supporters of public schools and prompted some protests.Neurocore is the creation of Timothy G. Royer, a licensed psychologist with a master’s degree in theology, who served as division chief of pediatric psychology at the Helen DeVos Children’s Hospital in Grand Rapids, Mich.Originally called Hope 139, after Psalm 139 from the Bible, the company marketed itself to schools — especially religious ones — in Michigan to help children improve academic scores and lessen the need for medication to treat certain ailments.Ms. DeVos and her husband began supporting the company in 2008, for a time hosting the company in the offices of Windquest.The company’s next step, Dr. Fotuhi said, will be to start 12-week boot camps to “help the elderly with memory problems.”
After Tom Casperson, a Republican state senator from Michigan’s Upper Peninsula, began running for Congress in 2016, he assumed the family of Betsy DeVos, President-elect Donald J. Trump’s nominee to be education secretary, would not oppose him.The DeVoses, a dominant force in Michigan politics for decades with a fortune in the billions, had contributed to one of Mr. Casperson’s earlier campaigns. But a week before his primary, family members sent $24,000 to one of his opponents, then poured $125,000 into a “super PAC,” Concerned Taxpayers of America, that ran ads attacking him.The reason, an intermediary told Mr. Casperson: his support from organized labor.“Deceitful, dishonest and cowardly,” was how Mr. Casperson’s campaign described the ads, complaining that the groups running them “won’t say who they are or where their money is coming from.” On Primary Day, Mr. Casperson went down to defeat.In announcing his intention to nominate Ms. DeVos, Mr. Trump described her as “a brilliant and passionate education advocate.” Even critics characterized her as a dedicated, if misguided, activist for school reform. But that description understates both the breadth of Ms. DeVos’s political interests and the influence she wields as part of her powerful family. More than anyone else who has joined the incoming Trump administration, she represents the combination of wealth, free-market ideology and political hardball associated with a better-known family of billionaires: Charles and David Koch.“They have this moralized sense of the free market that leads to this total program to turn back the ideas of the New Deal, the welfare state,” Kim Phillips-Fein, a historian who has written extensively about the conservative movement, said, describing the DeVoses.Ms. DeVos declined to be interviewed for this article.Like the Kochs, the DeVoses are generous supporters of think tanks that evangelize for unrestrained capitalism, like Michigan’s Acton Institute, and that rail against unions and back privatizing public services, like the Mackinac Center.They have also funded national groups dedicated to cutting back the role of government, including the National Center for Policy Analysis (which has pushed for Social Security privatization and against environmental regulation) and the Institute for Justice (which challenges regulations in court and defends school vouchers). Both organizations have also received money from the Koch family.Indeed, the DeVoses’ education activism, which favors alternatives to traditional public schools, appears to derive from the same free-market views that inform their suspicion of government. And perhaps more than other right-wing billionaires, the DeVoses couple their seeding of ideological causes with an aggressive brand of political spending. Half a dozen or more extended family members frequently coordinate contributions to maximize their impact.In the 2016 cycle alone, according to the Michigan Campaign Finance Network, the family spent roughly $14 million on political contributions to state and national candidates, parties, PACs and super PACs.All of this would make Ms. DeVos — whose confirmation hearing has been delayed until next week amid mounting pressure that her government ethics review be completed beforehand — very different from past education secretaries.“She is the most emblematic kind of oligarchic figure you can put in a cabinet position,” said Jeffrey Winters, a political scientist at Northwestern University who studies economic elites. “What she and the Kochs have in common is the unbridled use of wealth power to achieve whatever political goals they have.”Ms. DeVos, 59, grew up in Holland, Mich., the daughter of a conservative auto parts magnate who was an early funder of the Family Research Council, a conservative Christian group. When she married Dick DeVos in 1979, it was akin to a merger between two royal houses of western Michigan.Her husband’s father, Richard Sr., co-founder of the multilevel marketing company Amway, was an active member of the Christian Reformed Church that preached a mix of social conservatism and self-reliance. He once told the church’s official magazine that Chicago’s poor dwelled in slums because that was “the way they choose to live,” according to a Washington Post story from the 1980s.A fan of Rolls-Royces and pinkie rings, Richard Sr. wrote books with titles like “Ten Powerful Phrases for Positive People.”A similar air hung over his business. Amway sales representatives, which the company calls “independent business owners,” make money both by selling the company’s products — everything from perfume to toilet bowl cleaner — and by recruiting other sales representatives.The Federal Trade Commission once investigated the company for running a pyramid scheme before concluding that it had misled potential recruits about how much they could expect to earn.The flip side of the family’s proselytizing for capitalism, according to Professor Phillips-Fein, has been an effort to dismantle much “that would counterbalance the power of economic elites.”Amway funded a nationwide ad campaign in the early 1980s, protesting high taxes and regulations. Not long after, the company pleaded guilty to cheating the Canadian government out of more than $20 million in revenue.The family had a more winning public face in Dick DeVos, who combined the practiced empathy of a pitchman with the entitlement of an heir, spending over $30 million on an unsuccessful run for governor of Michigan in 2006. The Detroit Free Press described him that year as the wealthiest man to seek office in the state’s modern history.Betsy DeVos, who served as chairwoman of the Michigan Republican Party for most of the decade between 1996 and 2005, has often played the role of strategist in the relationship. She was a key adviser in her husband’s run for governor and publicly brooded that he had been too gentlemanly in his first debate against the incumbent.“He’s very good with people, a retail politician who looks you in the eye, shakes your hand, listens to what you say,” said Randy Richardville, a former Republican leader of the Michigan Senate, describing the couple’s strengths. “I would never underestimate Betsy DeVos in a knife fight.”Ms. DeVos has sometimes lacked her husband’s finesse, once famously blaming many of the state’s economic woes on “high wages.” She has won detractors, by their account, by browbeating legislators into voting her way.“Betsy DeVos was like my 4-year-old granddaughter at the time,” said Mike Pumford, a former Republican state representative who once clashed with her. “They were both sweet ladies as long as they kept hearing the word ‘yes.’ They turned into spoiled little brats when they were told ‘no.’”But Ms. DeVos has often made up for what she lacks in tact through sheer force of will.Mr. Richardville said he and Ms. DeVos disagreed over term limits, which she supported as party chairwoman and he opposed: “I said, ‘I don’t think you should be setting policy. You should be supporting those of us who do make policy.’ But she never backed down.”While Dick and Betsy DeVos appear to practice a more tolerant form of Christianity than their parents — Ms. DeVos has spoken out against anti-gay bigotry — as recently as the early 2000s they funded some groups like Focus on the Family, a large ministry that helps set the political agenda for conservative evangelicals. They have also backed groups that promote conservative values to students and Christian education, including one with ties to the Christian Reformed Church.Their economic views are strikingly similar to the elder Mr. DeVos’s.According to federal disclosures, Amway, which Dick DeVos ran between 1993 and 2002, has lobbied frequently over the last 20 years to reduce or repeal the estate tax. Only the top 0.2 percent wealthiest estates paid the tax in 2015.The company has also opposed crackdowns on tax shelters.Ms. DeVos has been an outspoken defender of unlimited contributions known as soft money, which she described in a 1997 editorial as “hard-earned American dollars that Big Brother has yet to find a way to control.”After Congress later passed a major campaign finance reform bill, a nonprofit that Ms. DeVos helped to create and fund masterminded the strategy that produced Citizens United, the 2010 Supreme Court decision laying the groundwork for super PACs funded by corporations, unions and individuals to raise and spend unlimited amounts in elections.And then there are the family’s efforts to rein in the labor movement.Through their contributions to think tanks like the Mackinac Center, as well as Mr. DeVos’s direct prodding of Republican legislators, the family played a key role in helping pass Michigan’s so-called right-to-work legislation in 2012. The legislation largely ended the requirement that workers pay fees to unions as a condition of employment.Unions in the state bled members in 2014, the first full year the measure was in effect.Allies say the DeVoses fight for their beliefs. “Betsy and Dick see themselves as principled conservatives,” said Frederick Hess of the American Enterprise Institute. “It kind of seems healthy and admirable to give resources to folks who are going to fight for causes you believe in.”But the fights can appear to be as much about consolidating power as ideology. Unions were arguably the family’s most formidable political opponent in Michigan, one of labor’s traditional strongholds.The DeVos family’s roots as education activists date back at least to when Richard DeVos Sr. was running Amway and an institute based at the company’s headquarters trained teachers to inject free-market principles into their curriculum.According to an interview Ms. DeVos gave to Philanthropy magazine, she and her husband became interested in education causes when they began visiting a Christian school that served low-income children in Grand Rapids in the 1980s.“If we could choose the right school for our kids” — by which she appeared to mean primarily private schools — “it only seemed fair that they could do the same for theirs,” she told the magazine.The family spent millions of dollars on a ballot proposal in 2000 asking if Michigan should legalize vouchers, in which students can use taxpayer money to attend private schools.Many critics, like the education historian Diane Ravitch, argue that the point of vouchers is to destroy public education and teachers’ unions. The group Americans United for Separation of Church and State has documented how conservative Christians have long supported vouchers, which could fund religious schools.After voters objected by more than a two-to-one ratio, Dick DeVos gave a speech at the Heritage Foundation saying such efforts would have to shift to state legislatures, where groups backed by deep-pocketed donors could offer “a political consequence for opposition, and political reward for support of education reform issues.”It is not unusual for the wealthy — who devote nearly 50 percent of their philanthropic dollars to education, according to the group Wealth-X — to spend aggressively in the political realm to impose their preferred reforms.Even by these standards, however, the DeVoses stand out for the amount of money they spend trying to advance their goals through politics rather than philanthropy, such as research into reforms or subsidizing schools.As Sarah Reckhow, an expert on education philanthropy at Michigan State University, put it: “The DeVoses are like: ‘No, we know what we want. We don’t need to have all this window dressing.’”Ms. DeVos has led two nonprofits that have spent millions of dollars electing governors and legislators sympathetic to school vouchers around the country.Matt Frendewey, a spokesman for one of the groups, said the efforts had frequently been bipartisan, and that the amount of money they had spent has been dwarfed by contributions from teachers’ unions opposed to reform. Yet in Michigan, at least, the family’s political strategy has not been subtle.After he defied Ms. DeVos on a key charter school vote, Mr. Pumford, the former Republican legislator, survived an effort by the Great Lakes Education Project, a nonprofit the DeVoses bankrolled, to defeat him in his 2002 primary.But shortly after, the House speaker told him the Education Committee chairmanship he coveted would not be forthcoming. “I said, ‘Why?’” Mr. Pumford recalled. “He said: ‘You know why. The DeVoses will walk away from us.’” Mr. Pumford added: “She told me that was going to happen.”(Rick Johnson, the House speaker, said he did not recall the conversation but also that he had not promised Mr. Pumford the chairmanship and would not have explained his reasons for withholding it.)Over time, the Great Lakes Education Project helped elect Republican majorities sympathetic to the DeVoses’ agenda. But the DeVoses’ lobbyists and operatives also discovered less messy ways to advance legislation.Late one night of their last workweek in 2015, the Michigan House and Senate were about to approve some uncontroversial changes to campaign finance law, when the bill abruptly grew by more than 40 pages.After the legislators discovered what they had voted for, many said they were horrified.Tucked away in the new pages was a provision that would have made it much harder for local bodies like school boards to raise money through property tax increases.“Michigan schools will likely suffer the brunt of the impact because the vast majority rely on periodic voter approval of local operating levy renewals for property taxes,” the ratings agency Moody’s wrote of the measure the following month.“I was fooled into voting for something I opposed,” said Dave Pagel, a Republican representative. “I consider it the worst vote I’ve made.”The chief culprits, according to Mr. Pagel and others at the state Capitol when the bill passed, were lobbyists closely tied to the DeVoses.Tony Daunt, a spokesman for the Michigan Freedom Fund, a nonprofit headed by the DeVoses’ longtime political aide, and whose political spending arm they have funded generously, said the group was “part of the discussion process with people in the legislature” about the proposal and “had consistently expressed support for the policy.”The law was later blocked by a federal judge, but the group has vowed to try again.Ms. DeVos’s advocates see in these fights the toughness to take on entrenched opponents of expanding reforms like charter schools and vouchers.In promoting Ms. DeVos in The Washington Post, Mitt Romney, the Republican Party’s 2012 presidential nominee, emphasized that her wealth gave her the independence to be “someone who isn’t financially biased shaping education.” He added, “DeVos doesn’t need the job now, nor will she be looking for an education job later.”But critics see someone with an unmistakable agenda. “The signs are there that she will do something radical,” said Jack Jennings, a former general counsel for the House education committee. “Trump wouldn’t have appointed this woman for this position if he didn’t intend something radical.”
WASHINGTON — When Greg McNeilly, a longtime Republican operative in Michigan, and his husband filed paperwork in 2015 to adopt a child, it included a warm testament of support from a seemingly unlikely source: Betsy DeVos, the conservative school choice advocate whose family has donated heavily to groups that oppose gay rights.As a couple, she wrote, the two shared “a close, caring relationship where they treat each other with respect.”Ms. DeVos, who is now President Trump’s nominee for education secretary, was also the first person to text her congratulations to Mr. McNeilly after his 2014 marriage in a small and hurried courthouse ceremony. If she had been able to attend, it would not have been her first.In 2013, some two years before the Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage nationwide, she was in the audience at the the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, in Washington, when the center’s president, Michael Kaiser, wed his husband in a ceremony officiated by Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.Ms. DeVos’s support for her gay friends and for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights are a largely unknown but deep-seated aspect of her history, dating as far back as the late 1990s. At that time, two colleagues recalled, she made accommodations for a transgender woman to use the women’s restroom at a Michigan Republican Party call center. She also used her political connections to help persuade other Michigan Republicans to sign a brief urging the Supreme Court to legalize same-sex marriage in 2015, though she did not sign it herself.This aspect of Ms. DeVos’s personal story is not only at odds with the public image of her and her family as prominent financiers of conservative causes, but it also stands out in a nascent administration with a number of members who have a history of opposing gay rights. A Senate confirmation vote on her nomination is scheduled for this week.The incomplete picture of Ms. DeVos, 59, exists in part because she has never publicly sought to correct it. Doing so, friends and associates said in interviews, would have put her in the awkward position of clashing with the elder members of her and her husband’s families, something she was loath to do.But over the past month, associates have come forward to share stories that they say they hope offer a fuller and more nuanced portrait of her character and beliefs.“She would say it’s a part of her faith,” said Mr. McNeilly, who has worked for Ms. DeVos in various capacities for two decades. “Her faith teaches her to be tolerant. And like most of America, she’s evolved.”While Ms. DeVos’s acceptance of gay rights may be welcome news to Republicans who think their party needs to move past the issue, it is likely to be worrisome to social conservatives who hope that the Trump administration will roll back some of the liberal social policies that went into effect under President Barack Obama.Chief among these is an Obama administration directive — issued by the Education and Justice Departments — instructing schools to allow transgender students to use the bathrooms that match their gender identity.“I’m concerned about any centralized idea of what should be the norms for students across America,” said Frank Cannon, president of the American Principles Project, a conservative policy group. “And I don’t think that any worldview, whether it’s the most conservative or liberal, ought to dictate a centralized form of education.”“Obviously, when you’re talking about bureaucracy,” Mr. Cannon added, “the worldview is much more likely to be a liberal one.”Ms. DeVos declined to comment for this article. Mr. Trump has left open how he will approach the school bathroom issue. He has, however, taken a more liberal attitude toward transgender rights than most other Republicans, saying, for instance, that Caitlyn Jenner could use any bathroom in his hotels that she wanted to.Ms. DeVos’s personal experience with the debate over gender identity and bathrooms dates back decades. As chairwoman of the Michigan Republican Party, she came to the aid of a transgender woman who wanted to use the women’s restroom at a call center, upsetting some of the other women there, according to two associates at the time — Mr. McNeilly, who was the party’s political director, and Eric Doster, the general counsel.“We made the accommodation, and that was Betsy’s call,” said Mr. Doster, who did not recall the woman’s name but said this happened in an office near the Michigan State University campus in 1997 or 1998. “A lot of the co-workers weren’t happy with it. But that’s who Betsy is.”But, like other supportive moves she has made over the years, it was done quietly. When Ken Mehlman, a former Republican National Committee chairman, was collecting signatures from Republicans for a 2015 legal brief that argued in favor of a constitutional right for same-sex marriage, he turned to Ms. DeVos for help in recruiting people in Michigan. She agreed, friends said.Peter F. Secchia, a friend of Ms. DeVos’s, former ambassador to Italy and one of the Republicans who signed the brief, recalled that the episode was not without some minor discomfort, given the elder DeVoses’ support for groups opposed to gay rights. Mr. Secchia said that after he signed the brief, he called Ms. DeVos’s father-in-law, Richard DeVos, the billionaire co-founder of Amway, as a courtesy.“I think he was very understanding and very happy that I’d called him,” Mr. Secchia said, noting how Ms. DeVos’s involvement with the brief also put her at odds with her mother, Elsa Prince Broekhuizen, whose foundation has also been active in socially conservative issues. “But this is a tough situation,” he added, for a woman “who has two families that lean the other way.”Ms. DeVos’s opponents have often conflated her family’s financial support for anti-gay rights initiatives with her own political activities. Ms. DeVos’s in-laws and mother gave heavily to a successful 2004 effort in Michigan to enshrine a ban on same-sex marriage in the state’s Constitution. But records from the secretary of state show no donations from Ms. DeVos or her husband, Richard DeVos Jr.At the time, she was chairwoman of the state party, and her colleagues said she was lukewarm to the idea at best.“It wasn’t like, when we would meet, it was her top priority,” said Mike Cox, a former Michigan attorney general, who supported the measure but has since changed his mind about same-sex marriage.Mr. McNeilly, who was the party’s executive director in 2004, was publicly critical of the ballot proposal then — acting, he said, with Ms. DeVos’s blessing. “Constitutional amendments are not good places to make bumper sticker statements,” he was quoted as saying in The Detroit News in 2003.Ms. DeVos’s record has not always spoken for itself, however, and she has sometimes struggled to separate her activities and beliefs from her family’s. Under questioning at her confirmation hearing this month, she was at a loss to tell senators why her name was listed as vice president of her mother’s foundation, the Edgar and Elsa Prince Foundation, a generous contributor to groups like Focus on the Family and the Family Research Council, both of which ardently oppose gay rights.Ms. DeVos blamed “a clerical error” but did not elaborate. It turned out that the tax forms on which she was listed were prepared by a former associate of her mother’s who embezzled millions of dollars from Ms. Prince.
WASHINGTON — At her confirmation hearing on Tuesday to be education secretary, Betsy DeVos vigorously defended her work steering taxpayer dollars from traditional public schools, arguing that it was time to move away from a “one size fits all” system and toward newer models for students from preschool to college.The hearing quickly became a heated and partisan debate that reflected the nation’s political divide on how best to spend public money in education.Republicans applauded Ms. DeVos’s work to expand charter schools and school vouchers, which give families public funds to help pay tuition at private schools. Democrats criticized her for wanting to “privatize” public education and pushed her, unsuccessfully, to support making public colleges and universities tuition-free.Ms. DeVos, a billionaire with a complex web of investments, including in companies that stand to win or lose from federal education policy, was the first nominee of President-elect Donald J. Trump to have a Senate hearing without completing an ethics review on how she planned to avoid conflicts of interest. Democrats pointed out that in the past, Republicans had insisted that no hearings be conducted before those reviews were complete.Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and chairman of the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions, limited the questioning to one round of five minutes for each senator, prompting howls from Democrats, who noted that previous hearings had included two rounds of questions.“It suggests that this committee is trying to protect this nominee from scrutiny,” said Senator Christopher S. Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut.With time limited, Democrats confronted Ms. DeVos with rapid-fire questions, demanding that she explain her family’s contributions to groups that support so-called conversion therapy for gay people; her donations to Republicans and their causes, which she agreed totaled about $200 million over the years; her past statements that government “sucks” and that public schools are a “dead end”; and the poor performance of charter schools in Detroit, where she resisted legislation that would have blocked chronically failing charter schools from expanding.Under questioning, Ms. DeVos said it would be “premature” to say whether she would continue the Obama administration’s policy requiring uniform reporting standards for sexual assaults on college campuses. She told Mr. Murphy, whose constituents include families whose children were killed in the 2012 massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School, that it should be “left to locales” to decide whether guns are allowed in schools, and that she supported Mr. Trump’s call to ban gun-free zones around schools. She also denied that she had personally supported conversion therapy.Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts pressed Ms. DeVos on how she could oversee the Education Department, the largest provider of student loans, given that she had no experience running a large bureaucracy and that neither she nor her children had ever taken out a student loan.“So you have no personal experience with college financial aid?” Ms. Warren asked.Ms. DeVos, who did not attend public schools or send her children to public schools, argued that vouchers and charter schools were simply a way of offering poor parents the kind of school choice that wealthy parents have long been able to afford.She described a visit she and her husband, an heir to the Amway fortune, made to a Christian school in her hometown, Grand Rapids, Mich., as a turning point in her career as a school choice advocate. “We saw the struggles and sacrifices many of these families faced when trying to choose the best educational option for their children,” she said. “For me, this was not just an issue of public policy but of national injustice.”But Democrats said research showed that voucher programs had done little to raise achievement among poor students.Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the ranking Democrat on the committee, asked Ms. DeVos, “Can you commit to us that you will not work to privatize public schools or cut a single penny from public education?”Ms. DeVos began to demur, saying that “not all schools are working for the students that are assigned to them” and that she would work to find “common ground” to give parents “options.”“I take that as not being willing to commit to not privatizing public education,” Ms. Murray said.Mr. Alexander, himself a former education secretary, argued that Ms. DeVos’s support of charter schools and vouchers put her in the “mainstream” of public opinion, and that her critics were outside it. He noted that charter schools, which are publicly funded but typically run independently of local school districts and teachers’ unions, have been supported by Republican and Democratic presidents going back to Bill Clinton.Democrats, however, argued that Ms. DeVos’s support went well beyond charter schools, to include the more contentious policy of sending public money to private and religious schools.“Charter schools are not the issue here,” said Senator Al Franken of Minnesota, where Democrats pushed the nation’s first law allowing charter schools nearly three decades ago. He noted that 37 states prohibit the use of public dollars for religious schools.One Republican, Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, expressed concern about Ms. DeVos’s enthusiasm for school choice — a moot point for many of her constituents, given the vastness of her state.“When there is no way to get to an alternative option for your child, the best parent is left relying on a public school system that they demand to be there for their kids,” she said, asking Ms. DeVos to ensure that her commitment to traditional public education was as “strong and robust” as her passion for school choice.
Here’s a reminder of how beautiful our planet is.The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration released the first batch of images taken by its recently launched GOES-16 satellite on Monday. With its high-definition camera, the satellite shows our blue marble with its wisps of white clouds and splotches of green and brown in vivid detail better than NOAA has seen with its weather satellites before.Launched in November, GOES-16 is the first in a series of next-generation geostationary weather satellites from NOAA designed to observe Earth and provide better weather forecasts. It orbits the planet at approximately 22,300 miles above Earth, and according to NOAA can provide images of the full Western Hemisphere every 15 minutes, as well as images of the entire continental United States every five minutes.“It’s more spectacular than we even envisioned,” said Steven Goodman, NOAA’s senior scientist for the GOES-R series. “The higher spatial resolution makes my jaw drop.”The composite image of the Western Hemisphere was captured at 1:07 p.m. Eastern time on Jan. 15, 2017. Compared to previous GOES satellites observing Earth, the tools on board GOES-16 can scan the planet five times faster, with four times the image resolution. They also have three times as many spectral channels, which will allow the satellite to collect more data in both visible and infrared wavelengths, according to NOAA.For weather forecasters, that provides the “meteorological equivalent of going from black and white to ultrahigh definition color TV,” the agency said in a statement.Those improved capabilities allow GOES-16 to contribute more to NOAA’s hurricane tracking efforts as well as to its severe-weather forecasting and monitoring. The satellite is also designed to observe fog, fires, dust storms, tornadoes, volcanic eruptions and lightning.“It’s more than a pretty picture,” Dr. Goodman said. “It gives us quantitative information and insight into the properties of the atmosphere and the land surface.”
One of the most ambitious challenges in Hollywood — actors doubling as directors on their films — has proved too much for Ben Affleck, who will no longer direct the coming movie, “The Batman.”“Performing this role demands focus, passion and the very best performance I can give,” Mr. Affleck said in a statement Monday night. “I cannot do both jobs to the level they require.”Mr. Affleck — who will still play the title character as well as produce and co-write “The Batman” — has had solid outings as an actor-director before with films like “The Town” and “Argo,” which won the Academy Award for best picture in 2013.But for other actor-directors, the road to critical and box-office glory is strewn with as many failures as successes. Here’s a look at some of the best-known projects and how they fared.The movies: Mr. Washington has directed and starred in three movies, including “Antwone Fisher” (2002), “The Great Debaters” (2007) and, most recently, “Fences,” an adaptation of that August Wilson play.The verdict: Mr. Washington earned a Screen Actors Guild Award for his acting in “Fences” on Sunday night, and his co-star, Viola Davis, has a good shot at winning the Oscar for best supporting actress this month. Even though Mr. Washington has far more experience on the acting front, he seems to be doing something right.The movie: Mr. Nicholson has directed a few times, but his most notable foray into the field was “The Two Jakes,” a 1990 sequel to “Chinatown,” the 1974 Roman Polanski film in which he also starred.The verdict: Not so hot. The sequel, to a movie generally regarded as one of the best films in history, was critically panned as convoluted and confusing. In Rolling Stone, the critic Peter Travers called it “an honorable failure.” Mr. Nicholson, he wrote, “is no Polanski.” He praised his work in front of the camera, however, calling it the movie’s “only undiluted pleasure.”The movie: “Braveheart” (1995), as well as the 1993 drama “The Man Without a Face.”The verdict:  It depends who you ask. “Braveheart,” a war epic about a medieval Scottish warrior on a quest to avenge his beloved’s murder, won the 1996 Oscar for best picture. Ten years later, the British magazine Empire declared it the worst best-picture winner ever.The movie: Spike Lee has appeared in several movies he has directed, but the best known is “Do the Right Thing” (1989), in which he starred as the pizza delivery man, Mookie.The verdict: Near-universal acclaim, and big box office numbers. The movie put Mr. Lee on the map as a leading American film director. His acting received good reviews, too, though he remains better known for his work behind the camera.The movies: “Yentl,” from 1983; “The Prince of Tides,” from 1991; and “The Mirror Has Two Faces,” from 1996.The verdict: Very good. All three movies garnered multiple Oscar nominations. Ms. Streisand wasn’t nominated for a directing Oscar for “The Prince of Tides,” which received seven nominations in all, an omission that sparked an outcry in Hollywood over the lack of recognition for female directors. In 2010, Ms. Streisand presented Kathryn Bigelow, the first woman to win an Oscar for directing, with her award.The movies: Mr. Allen has directed and starred in about 30 movies, many of which he also wrote. These include the recent “Café Society” (which he narrates), and some of his best-loved movies from the 1970s and 1980s, like “Annie Hall,” “Manhattan” and “Hannah and Her Sisters.”The verdict: Mr. Allen has four Oscars — three for writing and one for directing “Annie Hall” — though in recent years his best-reviewed movies (like the 2005 movie “Match Point” and “Midnight in Paris,” from 2011) haven’t starred him. As he aged, Mr. Allen came in for criticism for casting himself as an increasingly improbable romantic lead.The movies: Mr. Beatty starred in each of the movies he directed, including “Heaven Can Wait” (1978), “Reds” (1981), “Dick Tracy” (1990), “Bulworth” (1998) and “Rules Don’t Apply” (2016).The verdict: Mr. Beatty doesn’t step into the director’s chair that often, but when he does, it seems to work. Mr. Beatty has earned widespread kudos for all of his directorial outings, from “Heaven Can Wait,” about a quarterback who dies but returns in the body of a murdered millionaire, to “Bulworth,” a comedy about a senator who puts a hit out on his own life.The movie: Ms. Foster’s latest acting-directing foray was “Beaver,” a 2011 film about a man who begins to use a sock puppet of a beaver to communicate with his loved ones. Ms. Foster starred alongside her longtime friend Mr. Gibson.The verdict: Critical reception was decidedly mixed. Some praised the movie’s off-kilter humor, while others said that Ms. Foster brought a too-serious directorial hand to a comically twisted screenplay. The movie did poorly at the box office, bringing in less than $1 million in the United States.The movies: Mr. Eastwood has made a career of directing and starring in his own films. Among the best remembered are the 1992 movie “Unforgiven,” the 2004 film “Million Dollar Baby” and “Gran Torino,” which Mr. Eastwood directed and starred in in 2008.The verdict: “Unforgiven” and “Million Dollar Baby” were beloved by critics, and both won the Oscar for best picture. “Gran Torino” earned more mixed reviews, but critics, including Manohla Dargis of The New York Times, praised the film. Ms. Dargis called it “a sleek, muscle car of a movie Made in the U.S.A.,” and said that Mr. Eastwood was “a man whose vitality as an artist shows no signs of waning.”The movies: Mr. Welles directed and starred in his best known movies, including his well-regarded Shakespeare adaptations, and his 1941 classic, “Citizen Kane.”The verdict: Very, very good. Maybe even the best movie ever.
Reversing its stance of more than a century, the Boy Scouts of America said on Monday that the group would begin accepting members based on the gender listed on their application, paving the way for transgender boys to join the organization.“For more than 100 years, the Boy Scouts of America, along with schools, youth sports and other youth organizations, have ultimately deferred to the information on an individual’s birth certificate to determine eligibility for our single-gender programs,” the group said in a statement on its website. “However, that approach is no longer sufficient as communities and state laws are interpreting gender identity differently, and these laws vary widely from state to state.”The announcement, reported on Monday night by The Associated Press, reverses a policy that drew controversy late last year when a transgender boy in New Jersey was kicked out of the organization about a month after joining.“After weeks of significant conversations at all levels of our organization, we realized that referring to birth certificates as the reference point is no longer sufficient,” Michael Surbaugh, the Scouts’ chief executive, said in a recorded statement on Monday.The announcement came amid a national debate over transgender rights, with cities and states across the nation struggling with whether and how to regulate gender identity in the workplace, in restrooms and at schools.In recent years, the Boy Scouts of America has expanded rights for gay people. In 2013, the group ended its ban on openly gay youths participating in its activities. Two years later, the organization ended its ban on openly gay adult leaders.Advocates for gay and transgender people who had pushed for changes in Boy Scouts’ policy praised Monday’s announcement.“From our perspective, they clearly did the right thing,” said Zach Wahls, who co-founded Scouts for Equality, a nonprofit group that advocates for stronger protections in the organization for gays and transgender people. “My team and I knew that they were considering a policy change, but we are both heartened and surprised by how quickly they moved to change the situation.”Last year, in response to parent complaints, the Boy Scouts of America removed an 8-year-old transgender boy from the Secaucus, N.J., Cub Scout pack he had joined just about a month earlier, according to The Record, a newspaper in northern New Jersey.“It made me mad,” Joe Maldonado, the boy, told the newspaper. “I had a sad face, but I wasn’t crying. I’m way more angry than sad. My identity is a boy. If I was them, I would let every person in the world go in. It’s right to do.”Joe’s case may have been the first in which a transgender boy was ejected from the program, Mr. Wahls, a former Eagle Scout, said.When Mr. Wahls helped found Scouts for Equality in 2012, the Boy Scouts of America did not yet allow gay scouts or leaders, and “there was zero conversation about transgender issues.”While he was encouraged by what appeared to be the group’s quick decision on accepting transgender scouts, Scouts for Equality plans to push for a more formal policy, Mr. Wahls said.“We want to make sure that they work with experts who have experience with transgender youth and youth programs,” he said.The Boy Scouts of America claim nearly 2.3 million members between the ages of 7 and 21, and the group counts many notable figures among its alumni and volunteers.One of them, Rex W. Tillerson, President Trump’s nominee for secretary of state, was involved in getting the organization to accept gay scouts and leaders. He was the national president of the Boy Scouts of America from 2010 to 2011 and served on its executive board in 2013 when it voted to lift the ban on gay scouts.That decision came after years of reluctance from the organization and a wrenching internal debate that involved threats from some conservative parents and volunteers that they would quit. When the ban on gay leaders was reversed in 2015, the Mormon Church, the largest sponsor of scouting units, briefly threatened to leave the group as well.
RIO DE JANEIRO — Eike Batista, the fugitive oil-and-mining tycoon wanted in connection with Brazil’s far-reaching corruption investigation, flew home from New York on Monday and surrendered to the police, who placed him temporarily in a notoriously overcrowded prison.Mr. Batista’s case has generated intense interest in Brazil, where he was once the richest man and is still a household name. TV Globo interrupted programming to show the arrival of his plane and the police placing him in a squad car, part of the convoy of vehicles that accompanied him to the prison as a news helicopter followed.Mr. Batista was photographed looking tired and wan on the plane by the Rio newspaper O Globo, which reported he did not dine and just drank two glasses of milk. He took photographs with admirers and slept.He had been considered a fugitive since Jan. 26, when the police went to arrest him at his Rio de Janeiro mansion as part of the national corruption investigation, which has entangled dozens of politicians and business leaders. Officers found he had left the country on Jan. 24 on a flight to New York.His name was then included on an Interpol wanted list, a spokeswoman for Federal Police said.Police investigators have said they suspect Mr. Batista paid $16.5 million in bribes to the former Rio state governor Sérgio Cabral, who has been incarcerated since November, accused of running a corruption ring.Interviewed at Kennedy Airport in New York on Sunday night, Mr. Batista said he believed he had done nothing wrong, telling TV Globo that he was coming home to “help clean things up.”“I am coming back to respond to the justice system, as is my duty,” Mr. Batista said. “I’m coming back because sincerely I am going to show what things are like. As simple as that.”Mr. Batista’s flight to New York two days before the police sought to arrest him has raised questions over why he was even allowed to leave the country, given that the legal order for his arrest had been issued on Jan. 13.The Federal Police spokeswoman, speaking on condition of anonymity in accordance with government policy, said officers had received the order the day before they sought his arrest.The spokeswoman said Mr. Batista was taken to Ary Franco, one of the country’s most overcrowded and filthy prisons.Gutembergue de Oliveira, president of the Rio penal system workers union, said that Ary Franco currently holds more than 2,000 prisoners, more than double its capacity of around 970.“It’s like a dungeon. The light is bad, it’s old,” he said.With his head shaved, Mr. Batista was then moved to another prison, the Bandeira Stampa Public Prison, also known as Bangu 9. “The conditions are better there,” said Mr. de Oliveira, adding that the prison does not suffer the same level of overcrowding and is not dominated by any one prison gang.Fernando Martins, a lawyer acting for Mr. Batista, told the G1 news site that he had not yet been given access to his client.Mr. Batista’s arrest punctuated a comedown for the billionaire, once seen as a shining example of a confident, booming Brazil. His ascent symbolized a developing country that had seemed to successfully combine private enterprise with social justice and was riding high on surging commodities prices.The 2008 public offering of stock in Mr. Batista’s oil company, OGX, raised more than $3.6 billion. He assembled an empire that included mines, oil fields, electricity generating plants and even Rio’s landmark Hotel Glória.Mr. Batista was feted by the former presidents Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva and Dilma Rousseff from the leftist Workers’ Party, as well as celebrities and sports stars. He received more than $4 billion in loans and investments from the national development bank, and his wealth reached $34.5 billion in 2012.But Mr. Batista’s empire began to unravel when his oil fields delivered a fraction of the production promised and investor confidence in his network of companies nose-dived. His oil company went into bankruptcy protection proceedings in 2013.Brazil’s fortunes have suffered along with Mr. Batista’s — the country has been mired in a recession for nearly three years, and the Workers’ Party and its former allies are entangled in the corruption scandal, which centers on the state-run oil company, Petrobras. Ms. Rousseff was impeached last August, accused of breaking budget laws.Since the Petrobras investigation, known as Operation Car Wash, began in 2014, it has led to scores of arrests — including politicians, middlemen and business executives.The investigation expanded to ensnare Mr. Cabral, the former governor, and his wife, Adriana Ancelmo, a lawyer, and both were imprisoned. Investigators say Mr. Cabral and his conspirators accepted bribes from some of the companies involved in the Petrobras scandal.He and his wife are alleged to have spent millions of dollars on jewelry, luxury travel and clothes. The state of Rio is nearly insolvent, struggling to pay salaries and mollify enraged employees.Mr. Batista was close to Mr. Cabral and came under scrutiny for permitting the former governor and his family to use his private jet in 2011.This is not the first time Mr. Batista has faced legal problems. He was tried in 2014 on charges of insider trading and stock market manipulation, but the case was suspended in February 2015 after the presiding judge was filmed driving Mr. Batista’s seized Porsche.The judge was removed from the case. In November 2015, regulators barred Mr. Batista from serving as a corporate officer for five years.In another interview with Brazilian reporters from TV Globo and the O Globo newspaper at Kennedy Airport, Mr. Batista praised Operation Car Wash, which he said was “full of young, competent Brazilians.”“What is happening will make Brazil a country that everyone wants to invest in. For this, once this difficult phase is past, in the future everyone will give a different note to Brazil in terms of transparency,” he said.He added: “If mistakes were made you have to pay for the mistakes that you did. It’s like that.” But asked if he had made mistakes, Mr. Batista replied: “I don’t think so.”
LONDON — As American allies across Europe and Asia brace for President Trump, Britain stands out for the degree to which it is proceeding as if little has changed.The country, consumed with managing “Brexit” and its associated domestic political dramas, appears to have taken relatively few steps to prepare for the geopolitical earthquakes that Mr. Trump could bring to the international and European orders on which Britain relies, and that his proposals would undermine.“The people at the top of our system, whether they’re politicians or officials or journalists or think tankers like me, we’re all totally focused on Brexit,” said Charles Grant, who heads the London-based Center for European Reform. “We haven’t thought about Trump as much as we should have.”It is possible that Prime Minister Theresa May, by throwing in her lot with Mr. Trump, could ride out any changes to the international order. But if that approach does not succeed, it could have severe consequences both for her nation and for the world that Britain plays a role in keeping together.Mrs. May has sought to win over Mr. Trump, whom she will visit this week, just as her European counterparts are exploring more fundamental questions about American reliability.“The British debate on Trump is over very trivial stuff, like who Trump spoke to before May, and the German debate is over the future of the liberal order in the West,” said Mark Leonard, the director of the London-based European Council on Foreign Relations.Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the German foreign minister, wrote in a column this week for the German newspaper Bild that, with Mr. Trump’s election, “the old world of the 20th century is gone” and that Germany could confront drastic changes.François Hollande, the French president, said last month that Mr. Trump’s election “opens a period of uncertainty.”British leaders, Mr. Leonard said, have not accepted the view, growing in other European governments, “that our prosperity and security are based on an international architecture that’s now being threatened.”“There’s an assumption that’s all going to remain,” he continued.Since Britain’s decline from a global power in the years just after World War II, the country’s foreign policy has rested on two pillars.First is the American-British partnership, which allows Britain to project its power and safeguard its interests globally. Second is European unity, which is essential for Britain’s economic prosperity and, by removing the centuries-old diversions of European conflict, frees up Britain to act on the world stage.But both of those pillars could now be crumbling under the strain of European populism, Russian resurgence and particularly Mr. Trump’s threats to step away from Europe.Britain’s challenge is not just that each of those elements is coming under strain. Mr. Trump’s avowed opposition to the European Union has put them in direct conflict.For instance, Mr. Trump offered to reward Britain’s exit from the European Union with a speedy trade deal. But this risks encouraging more exits from the bloc and possibly its disintegration. The resulting turmoil on the Continent, which includes several top British trading partners, could risk harming Britain’s economy far more than an American trade deal would help.Mr. Trump’s proposed alignment with Russia poses a similar quandary. Germany and other leading European powers oppose such a realignment, which they fear would open the way for Russia to dominate Eastern Europe, breaking the Continent’s unity on security matters.Mrs. May remains hawkish on Russia. But it is unclear whether she would oppose Mr. Trump on the matter, particularly as she more fully ties her fate to the alliance.“If America eases up on Russia, Britain will be under heavy pressure to pick the United States, not to side with Merkel,” said Robin Niblett, the director of Chatham House, a London-based think tank, referring to Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany.Mrs. May is increasingly focused on maintaining the alliance with the United States, the world’s largest economy and military power.Whereas leaders such as Ms. Merkel have responded sharply to criticism from Mr. Trump, Mrs. May has been more forgiving. For example, she overlooked Mr. Trump’s decision to meet with Nigel Farage, a former leader of the fringe U.K. Independence Party, before speaking with her.Even if Mrs. May succeeds in upholding the alliance, it is unclear that her government is preparing for the range of more seismic changes that Mr. Trump’s election and other events could bring.Jeremy Shapiro, an American and the research director for the European Council on Foreign Relations, said he had struggled to convince British officials that the old order is “eroding all around them.”Mr. Shapiro paraphrased the “dominant” British view of Mr. Trump as, “We didn’t want him, but pressures of the presidency, checks and balances, our expert tutelage will socialize him, and it’ll be O.K.”British hopes, he added, often rest on Senator John McCain’s persuading of Mr. Trump to drop his controversial plans and revert to traditional positions such as upholding European unity.Mr. Shapiro said he had been unable to convince British officials that Mr. McCain, whom Mr. Trump has publicly mocked, was an unlikely savior.Lawrence Freedman, emeritus professor of war studies at King’s College London, said there was a simple reason that British leaders never seemed to discuss their backup plan should they fail to moderate Mr. Trump.“There isn’t a Plan B,” he said. Preparing for life without American support, British leaders worry, could send the message that the United States can safely withdraw, risking exactly the outcome Britain wishes to avoid.“This has always been the problem,” Mr. Freedman said, because it leaves Britain unprepared for a situation that could be deeply destabilizing — much as it failed to prepare for Brexit.Brexit has focused attention inward, on day-to-day political dramas and on the countless challenges of negotiating Britain’s exit from the European Union.“We’re going through a very solipsistic moment,” Mr. Leonard said. This has led the British to behave “as if the only independent variable is Britain leaving the E.U. and the manner in which it’s done.”This is shaping British foreign policy in other ways.“There’s always going to be a question of whether we’re better off using our political capital to advance the international security order or to try to get a good trade deal,” Mr. Leonard said.Britain’s party politics also distract.Mrs. May is only barely holding together the governing Conservative Party, leaving her overwhelmingly focused on managing divisions that are mostly about Brexit and migration. Both she and her foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, have spent their careers focused on domestic issues.The opposition Labour Party is riven by its own divisions. Its leader, Jeremy Corbyn, tends to be skeptical toward Britain’s global role.As a result, there are no major voices in British politics who have an interest, either ideological or political, in addressing the country’s foreign policy challenges.Britons’ view of their country as a pillar of a European and world order, rooted in their experience of standing up to fascism and militarism in World War II, is also shifting.“Until quite recently, we saw ourselves as part-guarantors of the European order, but we don’t sort of see ourselves in that way anymore,” said Mr. Freedman, the King’s College professor.This has accelerated with the enmity toward immigration, which has focused politics inward and portrayed the outside world as something to guard against rather than to protect and uphold.That has ramifications beyond Britain. Even after Brexit, the country remains important for upholding the postwar order in Europe, where it is the largest economy after Germany and the biggest military spender after Russia. If its horizons continue to narrow, that will contribute to the Continent’s continuing fracturing on economics and opposition to Russian power.Mr. Niblett, the Chatham House chief, said he was worried Britain would become the “weak link” on European sanctions on Russia for its annexation of Crimea.“The U.K., which traditionally sees itself as upholding the spine of Europe toward Russia, is pulling itself out of that role,” Mr. Niblett said.Other European states are already preparing for the possibility that the Continent can no longer rely on Britain, Mr. Leonard said, on issues from Russia to the Iran nuclear deal to global free trade.“They don’t know if Britain’s going to be there or not,” he said.
Brunhilde Pomsel, the personal stenographer of the Nazi propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels during the last three years of World War II and one of the last surviving members of Hitler’s retinue in his final days in a Berlin bunker, died on Friday at her home in Munich. She was 106.Her death was confirmed by Christian Krönes, a director of “A German Life,” a documentary film about Ms. Pomsel. Mr. Krönes said family members told him of the death.A trusted Nazi Party loyalist, Ms. Pomsel was the private secretary of Goebbels from 1942 until the war’s end in 1945, taking his dictation and transcribing documents, letters, diary entries and other business of that virulently anti-Semitic propaganda chief, who rigidly controlled the news media, the arts, radio broadcasting and films in Nazi Germany.In Berlin’s swastika-draped Sportpalast in 1943, when Goebbels gave his most famous speech, acknowledging publicly for the first time — after the Nazi defeat at Stalingrad — that the nation faced serious dangers, calling for “total war” and hinting at a vast extermination of Jews that was already underway, Ms. Pomsel sat near the front, just behind her boss’s wife, Magda Goebbels.“No actor could have been any better at the transformation from a civilized serious person into a ranting, rowdy man,” Ms. Pomsel told The Guardian in an interview seven decades later. “In the office, he had a kind of noble elegance, and then to see him there like a raging midget — you just can’t imagine a greater contrast.”Ms. Pomsel was hardly oblivious to the persecution of Jews and other political undesirables. She saw brutalities and roundups in the streets, and she knew that her vivacious, red-haired Jewish friend, Eva Löwenthal, had disappeared and that a popular announcer on the state radio where she had formerly worked had been arrested for being gay.“The whole country was as if under a kind of spell,” she recalled. “I could open myself up to the accusations that I wasn’t interested in politics, but the truth is that idealism of youth might easily have led you to having your neck broken.”Among the thousands of documents that crossed her desk, she remembered the dossier of Sophie Scholl, a leader of the anti-Nazi White Rose resistance movement. Ms. Scholl was executed for high treason in 1943 after distributing antiwar leaflets at the University of Munich.“I was told by one of Goebbels’s special assistants to put it in the safe and not to look at it,” she said of the dossier. “So I didn’t and was quite pleased with myself that he trusted me and that my keenness to honor that trust was stronger than my curiosity to open that file.”In late April 1945, as Soviet forces closed in on the heart of Berlin and it was clear the war had been lost, Ms. Pomsel and other staffers joined Mrs. Goebbels and her six children in the “Vorbunker” under the Reich Chancellery. Hitler was in a deeper “Führerbunker,” and most of his inner circle — Goebbels, Göring, Himmler, Ribbentrop, Bormann and Speer — joined him there for a bitter farewell.“It felt as if something inside me had died,” Ms. Pomsel recalled. “We tried to make sure we didn’t run out of alcohol. That was urgently needed in order to retain the numbness.”In succeeding days, most occupants of the führer’s bunker slipped away, singly and in small groups. Some escaped, and others were killed or captured by the Russians. Hitler and Goebbels, his designated heir, stayed behind. On April 30, Ms. Pomsel recalled, Günther Schwägermann, a Goebbels aide, told the staff that Hitler and Eva Braun, after a marriage ceremony, had committed suicide.A day later, Schwägermann reported that Goebbels had killed himself.“We asked him: ‘And his wife as well?’“Yes.”“And the children too?”Ms. Pomsel had often seen the children at the office, excited to visit their father at work. She had let them play with her typewriter. The oldest was 12. They were polite, curtsying, shaking hands.“We were dumbstruck,” she said.Investigators later determined that Goebbels had arranged for a dentist to inject each of the children with morphine. When they were unconscious, Magda Goebbels, assisted by her husband’s doctor, had crushed ampuls of cyanide into their mouths.Ms. Pomsel and other staff members made a large white flag from food sacks in the bunker and surrendered to the Russians. Under interrogation, she acknowledged her role in the Propaganda Ministry and served five years in Russian prison camps around Berlin.Like Hitler’s last private secretary, Traudl Junge, Ms. Pomsel insisted that she had been ignorant of Nazi atrocities during the war. She said it was not until after her return home from imprisonment that she learned of the Holocaust, which she called “the matter of the Jews.”She found work at a new state radio station in Berlin, became secretary to the program director and followed him to Munich when he was transferred there. She was paid well, traveled and retired in 1971 at age 60. She never married, had no children and lived the rest of her life in Munich.She gave interviews to the German newspaper Bild in 2011, and to The Guardian last year to coincide with the release of “A German Life,” a 113-minute documentary, based on 30 hours of interviews, that had its premiere at the Munich Film Festival.In the interviews and film, she sometimes contradicted herself. She told the newspapers that she had joined the Nazi Party when Hitler took power in 1933, but in the film she said that she had joined in 1942 to get the job with Goebbels. In the film she carefully minimized her Nazi associations, but with the newspapers she was far less guarded.Still, she was consistently unrepentant, saying she had nothing to apologize for.“No,” she told the filmmakers, “I wouldn’t see myself as being guilty. Unless you end up blaming the entire German population for ultimately enabling that government to take control. That was all of us, including me.”Brunhilde Pomsel was born in Berlin on Jan. 11, 1911, the only daughter among four children of strict Prussian parents. She attended public schools and became a stenographer for a Jewish lawyer and a typist for a right-wing nationalist.In 1933, a Nazi friend got her a job in the news department of the state radio station in Berlin. Nine years later she joined the Propaganda Ministry, working in an anteroom outside Goebbels’s office at the Ordenspalais, opposite Hitler’s Reich Chancellery.Small, manicured and a notorious womanizer, Goebbels limped on a deformed right foot. He had adored Hitler since the mid-1920s and had organized torchlight parades, the Nuremberg party rallies, and the brownshirts and Nazi agitators who smashed Jewish businesses and attacked Jews in the streets. He was a fanatic diarist, dictating up to 85 pages a day, to be transcribed by his secretary and senior confidants like Werner Naumann, who handled sensitive materials.Ms. Pomsel was once invited to dinner at the Goebbels villa and seated next to her boss, a raconteur who regaled the table. “If I had been a movie star, he probably would have dazzled me with charm,” she said. “He didn’t even ask me whether I liked it there or whether I had relatives fighting in the war.” (Two of her three brothers had died in battle.) “He did not speak to me at all, not even one word.”At the office he was formal and distant. She said her duties, besides dictation and typescripts, included writing reports that understated Nazi casualties and exaggerated rapes of German women by Red Army soldiers. But she said she never had access to information about Nazi war crimes.“We knew that Buchenwald existed,” she said in the documentary. “We knew it as a camp. We knew Jews went there. I witnessed the deportation of Jews from Berlin.” But she said the staff was told that deported Jews would repopulate lands to the east that were being abandoned by refugees.As for gas chambers and crematories, she told The Guardian: “I know no one ever believes us nowadays — everyone thinks we knew everything. We knew nothing. It was all a well-kept secret. We believed it. We swallowed it. It seemed entirely plausible.”In retirement, Ms. Pomsel lived in a Munich suburb. In 2005, she went to Berlin to see the new Holocaust Memorial to six million Jews killed in the war, and she inquired about her long-lost friend.“I went to the information center and told them I myself was missing someone — an Eva Löwenthal,” she said. A man checked records and found that she had been deported to Auschwitz in November 1943 and declared dead in 1945.After her eyesight began to fail in 2013, Ms. Pomsel entered a nursing home.She told The Guardian: “In the little time that’s left to me — and I hope it will be months rather than years — I just cling to the hope that the world doesn’t turn upside down again as it did then, though there have been some ghastly developments, haven’t there? I’m relieved I never had any children that I have to worry about.”
MELBOURNE, Australia — In an Australian Open dominated by players in their 30s, the two oldest remaining fell just short of adding the men’s doubles title to their generation’s haul.The American twins Bob and Mike Bryan, 38, lost the men’s doubles final Saturday evening to Henri Kontinen, 26, and John Peers, 28, with the Finnish-Australian team prevailing, 7-5, 7-5.Though it was their first Grand Slam title, Kontinen and Peers, who were seeded fourth, have been the dominant team in recent months, winning the Paris-Bercy Masters and ATP World Tour Finals titles in November.“I think we’ve just been playing very good tennis. We know we’re tough to beat,” Kontinen said, before addressing the Bryans. “But, I mean, you know their history, how many Slam finals they played and won.”The Bryans have won 16 Grand Slam titles together, the most recent of which came at the United States Open in 2014. Though they were particularly frustrated by landing only 47 percent of their first serves in the final, the runner-up finish proved satisfying, especially after third-round exits each of the last two years here.“It’s obviously one round short, but it’s a positive way to start the year,” Mike Bryan said. “A final of a Slam is nothing to hang your head about. We’re going to take some positives out of it. It was fun being in another final. But, yeah, we’re just going to work harder, and hopefully this will set us up for a big year.”Though the presence of 30-somethings in both the men’s and women’s singles finals represents a departure from the demographic norms, a grayer class has long ruled in men’s doubles. Daniel Nestor, ranked 15th, is 44; Leander Paes, still one of the game’s best, particularly in mixed doubles, is 43.“We’re not getting any younger. We’re closer to 40 now,” Bryan said. “It’s just great to see what Fed and Serena and Venus, all these players have done. Longevity in the sport is pretty cool, I think. Especially in doubles, you can go until you’re 40. Guys are just setting the bar a little higher. So for these younger players, they can look at their career and say, O.K., we can play 20 years.”Slowly, however, a new group of relatively young players is finding success.“There’s a new, younger generation of doubles players coming up,” Bryan said. “A lot of the legends of doubles are getting older, like us. Nestor, Paes, these guys, are on their way out. We kind of stopped dominating — it gave room for these teams to come in there.”The vacuum of established doubles stars has created chaos atop the game: Ten of the last 13 Grand Slam titles in men’s doubles have been won by pairings of two players who had never before won a major men’s doubles title.“It’s pretty much anyone’s ballgame. There’s 16 to 20 teams that can win a Slam,” Bryan said. “Kind of like golf, now that Tiger is not dominating.“It’s fun to see these guys win their first Slam. They’re deserving, yeah. We’re hoping to get back in the mix, though.”A self-set clock is ticking, however, with Mike Bryan calling this season “maybe the last year” the two would play on tour. The brothers announced their decision to retire from Davis Cup play earlier in the week but are still searching for the perfect ending to their careers on tour. The brothers had discussions about retirement in December, and those discussions continue.“There was a period in our career where we were knocking down a lot of those records and hitting a lot of numbers,” Bob Bryan said. “Now, we kind of just want to do a little more of it, go out with a bang. We don’t want to limp out of the game; we want to go out with results like this, hopefully go a little further.”He mentioned Pete Sampras ending his career with a win at the 2002 United States Open as an ideal template to follow.“It would be nice to go out the way Pete went out: Win a Slam,” he said. “That would feel really good. We believe we can do it. That’s why we’re here.”
There is a breathtaking view of the mid-Manhattan skyline, pierced by the Empire State Building, from the 48th floor of the taller of two new copper-clad apartment towers along the East River, just south of the United Nations.No plutocrat will enjoy it, however. This impressive penthouse aerie is hogged by five emergency generators. The window is already blocked by a bank of electrical switchgear. For the developers, giving up premium space to machinery is insurance against an ominous future: They want tenants in the towers’ 760 apartments to be able to live in their apartments for at least a week, no matter how high floodwaters may reach nor how long the power is out.“We said: ‘Water is going to come in here. What are we going to do about it?’” explained Simon Koster, a principal in the JDS Development Group, which is building the towers, known as the American Copper Buildings.JDS is in good company.Along coastlines and lake shores and riverfronts across the country, tenants and homeowners, regulators and planners, private developers and public institutions are embracing the accumulating evidence of climate change and fortifying buildings and infrastructure against rising sea levels and ever more intense storms.To an extent that would have been unimaginable before Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and Hurricane Sandy in 2012, resilient design has entered the vocabulary of architects and engineers in parts of the country at risk of inundation.Beginning with this article, The New York Times is presenting case studies in resilient design, focused on the New York City area. The series, accompanied by a glossary, will look at steps being taken to resist floods, surges, high winds and heavy rains — steps that offer lessons to builders everywhere. It will include an old tenement on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, a new school and office building in West Chelsea, an AIDS residence in Greenwich Village, the headquarters of the West Elm chain of furniture stores in a landmark warehouse on the Brooklyn waterfront and a single-family home on Jamaica Bay.“Rising sea levels and a changing climate present a challenge for our country’s largest city, and also an opportunity to create a more resilient, sustainable and equitable New York City,” said Daniel A. Zarrilli, the city’s chief resilience officer and the senior director for climate policy and programs in the administration of Mayor Bill de Blasio.Whether President Trump embraces or resists the emerging notion of resilient design remains to be seen. Moments after his inauguration last week, almost every reference to climate change was removed from the White House website. But Mr. Trump did acknowledge last summer that raising the height of roadways around Miami — which is particularly vulnerable to rising seas — to keep them from flooding was “not the worst thing I’ve ever heard.” As long as local governments did it.At first blush, it is hard to imagine 48- and 41-story apartment buildings as being vulnerable to flooding.But between 2012, when the site of the American Copper Buildings was put on the market, and 2013, when the development parcel was acquired by JDS, the property had been inundated by Hurricane Sandy. An excavated pit about eight feet deep had become a small lake.“We knew from the very beginning that we would have to design something that would resist this kind of flooding,” Mr. Koster said. The developers even wondered at first whether the $650 million project — the overall scope of which they inherited from the previous owner, Sheldon Solow — would even attract tenants.A vital lesson taught by Hurricane Sandy was that high-rise apartment dwellers might be forced to live without power from Consolidated Edison, which provides electricity to New York City and Westchester County, for long periods.There was no question about installing enough emergency generators to power the eight passenger elevators and two freight elevators, the water pumps and lighting in common areas like hallways and stairways.But JDS took the further step of installing enough emergency generating capacity to power the refrigerator in every apartment indefinitely, as well as one outlet in every apartment that tenants can use to recharge their mobile phones, among other things.“That’s our lifeline,” said Gregg Pasquarelli, a founding partner of Shop Architects, which designed the buildings with WSP/Parsons Brinckerhoff, BuroHappold and Scape. “If you have your phone and your refrigerator, you can survive. You could probably make it a week with those things.”To produce that much power, five 400-kilowatt generators were installed in the west half of the 48th floor of the north tower. They are powered by natural gas. Gas-powered generators do not depend on the delivery of fuel oil, which is transported by trucks and therefore easily interrupted in big storms.“There is switchgear in what would normally be penthouse space,” Mr. Koster said. But the provision of ample emergency power was seen as an asset and a selling point to New Yorkers scarred by memories of Hurricane Sandy. “We figured every apartment would be more valuable than getting however many dollars per square foot for the space you’re standing in,” Mr. Koster said amid the generators.As of 2014, and in response to Hurricane Sandy, New York began requiring that mechanical systems be installed above the “design flood elevation” — one or two feet higher than the highest expected flooding — at buildings, like American Copper, that are being constructed or substantially renovated in a floodplain.There was no such mandate in 2013, Mr. Koster said. But the architects and engineers of American Copper did not need their arms twisted.“All the buildings with equipment in the basement got rocked by Sandy,” Mr. Pasquarelli said. “It took them six months to recover. We said, ‘Let’s lift all the equipment to the second floor.’”Some of the mechanical systems are actually visible through second-floor windows along First Avenue. Louvers elsewhere on the second floor — where windows would ordinarily be found — also disclose the presence of equipment.There are other obvious, if subtle, accommodations to the water. The copper cladding that distinguishes the towers does not start at ground level, but 20 feet above the base, so it will never be submerged. The main lobby walls are covered in stone, rather than wood.Some mitigation measures are invisible. For instance, there is an 18-inch-deep gravel bed, sandwiched between two concrete slabs, under the buildings’ subbasements. Excess storm water will collect in this bed and empty gradually through perforated pipes threaded through the gravel.Those pipes will carry the water to sump pits, from which it can be pumped into the city’s storm sewer system when the rain subsides.More than 1,000 prospective tenants have asked for information on the 600 market-rate apartments at American Copper (one-bedroom units start at $3,600 a month), a spokesman for the developers said, though the buildings will not open until next month. And 79,000 applications have been received for the 160 subsidized affordable units in the complex (one-bedroom units start at $895 a month).“There is a huge amount of interest in this project, which justifies the unique approach we took,” said Michael Stern, the founder and chief executive of JDS.It would seem — for now — that people will still move to the waterfront, if they are persuaded their homes can weather the coming storms.
CHICAGO — When the United Center went black Friday night, the pulsating music began to blare and the piercing white spotlights started to swirl, but Dwyane Wade was not where he was supposed to be.Instead, for the first time in the 43 games he has played during his first season back home with the Chicago Bulls, Wade was not in the starting lineup. There was no pregame introduction, no drawn-out “From Chicago” to greet him as he took the court.Wade, 35, and his teammate, the All-Star swingman Jimmy Butler, were being punished for having created an uproar with postgame comments Wednesday night in which they chastised their teammates for a perceived lack of effort in a meltdown loss to the Atlanta Hawks.So Wade sat at the start of Friday’s game against the Miami Heat, his old team. He did not approach the scorer’s table to enter the game until midway through the first quarter, not long after Butler, 27, had made his own delayed entry.Two hours later, Wade came out of the game as it was winding down. By then, the Bulls were on their way to losing again, 100-88. Coach Fred Hoiberg said it was the worst performance by his team this season, although Wade, as opposed to two nights earlier, kept his own postgame evaluation fairly brief.“I think we lost to a team that’s playing very well lately,” Wade said. “We’ve got to continue to get better.”Wade finished with 15 points in 28 minutes, while Butler was 1 of 13 for 3 points in 33 minutes.The Bulls now sit two games below .500.Wade’s unfiltered criticism of his team came as his former Heat co-star LeBron James was publicly targeting the front office of the Cleveland Cavaliers for not surrounding James and his teammates with enough depth as they try to win a second straight title.The Cavaliers’ sudden midseason slump triggered James’s comments, although Cleveland remains at the top of the Eastern Conference and is still a clear favorite to return to the N.B.A. finals this spring.But unlike James, whose criticism seemed mostly limited to his club’s management and how much it may or may not be willing to spend, Wade targeted his own teammates, a perilous thing to do. Yet as the Bulls went through their Friday morning shootaround before playing the Heat, Wade remained largely unapologetic.“When you’re a leader, certain things you do and say aren’t always going to be the popular thing in the locker room,” he said after a team meeting that lasted more than an hour and included the team’s general manager, Gar Forman, and executive vice president, John Paxson.“That’s why some guys don’t want to be leaders,” Wade said. “Some guys want to be in the middle of the pack so they can be liked. As a leader, sometimes, you can’t be liked. It’s the harsh truth and the harsh reality. I’m probably not liked in this locker room today. I’m O.K. with that.”Wade won winning three N.B.A. championships during his 13 seasons in Miami, two of them with James, but his return to his hometown — where he has been active philanthropically and which mirrors James’s return to Cleveland — has not yielded the results he or the Bulls hoped for.Wade signed a two-year, $47 million contract that includes a player’s option for the second season, giving him the chance to go elsewhere, and perhaps he will.Wade is Chicago’s second-leading scorer behind Butler, averaging just shy of 20 points per game. But his age, and the physical toll he has endured, keep him from playing the second of back-to-back games or playing in every practice, and his shooting percentage (42.7 percent) is the lowest of his career.On Friday, Forman, the general manager, criticized Butler and Wade for speaking out, saying it created a distraction the Bulls could ill afford.But Forman’s admonishment was mild compared with the words that another Bulls player, Rajon Rondo, had directed at Wade and Butler the day before. In an Instagram post, Rondo unfavorably compared their postgame comments on Wednesday night with the leadership that he said veteran Celtics such as Paul Pierce and Kevin Garnett displayed — “my vets’’ he called them — when Rondo played with them in Boston and won a championship in 2008.The problem here, Rondo said in the post, was not with the effort of the Bulls’ younger players.“If anything is questionable,” Rondo said, it is “the leadership” of the Bulls, namely Wade and Butler, who is in his sixth season here.On Friday, it was Wade and Butler’s turn to respond to Rondo.“Everyone gets opportunities to express themselves,” Wade said.“He spoke his mind, I spoke my mind, move on,” Butler said.Rondo, 30, who joined the Bulls this season on a two-year deal worth nearly $28 million, is not having a particularly happy time of it, either. He was demoted from a starting role to a backup, is averaging under 7 points a game and is shooting a career-low 37.5 percent from the floor. He, too, may not be around next season. (On Friday, Rondo shot 6 of 8 for 13 points, with 7 assists, 7 rebounds and 3 steals, in 32 minutes.)Nearly 350 miles away in Cleveland on Friday night, James’s Cavaliers ended a three-game losing streak with a 124-116 win over the 9-37 Nets.James scored 31 points in the victory, Cleveland’s third in its last nine games, and afterward seemed more content than he had been earlier in the week.“Having bumps in the road — I think it builds character,” he said. In Chicago, however, the bumps seem more like boulders.
Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Mike McPhate is on vacation. Today’s introduction comes to us from Jennifer Medina, a national correspondent based in Los Angeles.“A dark path for our country,” said Senator Dianne Feinstein.Senator Kamala Harris labeled it “a de facto Muslim ban.”And Attorney General Xavier Becerra called it “unjust and anti-American.”As the impact of President Trump’s executive order to temporarily block all refugees and deny entry to citizens of seven majority-Muslim countries ricocheted around the world, Democratic leaders in California vowed to fight back against the order.Thousands of protesters gathered at airports in San Francisco, San Diego and Los Angeles, where there were reports of travelers being held Sunday. Tech leaders in Silicon Valley also came out over the weekend in opposition to the ban. No Republicans in the state have forcefully defended the policy.In Washington, Ms. Harris joined the protesters in front of the White House. She also sent a letter to John Kelly, the head of the Department of Homeland Security, demanding that those being detained have full access to lawyers, many of who had set up temporary shop in airport waiting areas.Ms. Harris said that Customs and Border Protection officials throughout the state were continuing to detain legal permanent residents and visa holders, while not letting them speak to lawyers.“I hope you will agree that one of the fundamental rights that distinguish our country from dictatorships and despotic regimes in the world is that we believe in fundamental fairness and due process — a key aspect of which permitting legal representation,” she wrote.Mr. Becerra said the executive order “tramples on centuries of American tradition,” adding in a statement, “We will use every tool within our authority to offer victims of the Trump administration’s overreach a fighting chance to overcome but another cruel barrier to their flight to freedom.”On Sunday, Mr. Becerra joined attorneys general from 15 other states, including Pennsylvania, Iowa and Illinois, condemning the order and promising to help minimize its impact.Ms. Feinstein said she would introduce legislation that would rescind the executive order and another that would limit executive authority and prevent the president from unilaterally banning groups of immigrants.By the end of the day Sunday, the Trump administration appeared to walk back some of the restrictions, saying that people from the seven countries who have green cards will not be stopped from re-entering the United States. But as confusion reigned throughout the country Sunday, it remained unclear how the order will continue to affect travel worldwide.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)• An editorial calls for a buffer zone between homes and oil drilling operations in Los Angeles. [The New York Times]• The Los Angeles County child protection agency has missed hundreds of payments to foster families because of computer glitches. [Los Angeles Times]•  Gov. Jerry Brown will undergo radiation treatment for prostate cancer that he first had treated in 2012. [The Associated Press]• A new “hate map” from the Southern Poverty Law Center lists 30 groups in Southern California. [Orange County Register]• A sporting-equipment company based in Carlsbad is hoping its single-length irons will revolutionize golfing. [The New York Times]• The Seasteading Institute, a California nonprofit, has raised $2.5 million from more than 1,000 donors to build a city of floating islands in the South Pacific. [The New York Times]• California has its sights set on a legal marijuana economy that could be worth up to $7 billion. [The Associated Press]• Opposition to Mr. Trump’s policies was center stage at the Screen Actors Guild Awards in Los Angeles. [The New York Times]• Arthur H. Rosenfeld, a physicist whose work laid the foundation for energy-saving requirements for appliances and buildings, died in Berkeley on Friday. [The New York Times]• The otter population is reaching new highs on the Central Coast, but elsewhere, the animal is struggling against a deadly foe: the great white shark. [San Jose Mercury News]• Hollywood’s use of trained animals came under attack in the weeks before “A Dog’s Purpose” was released, but the film performed well at the box office this weekend. [The New York Times]• On Tuesday, Apple will announce its earnings for the first quarter of the fiscal year.• The Santa Barbara International Film Festival begins on Wednesday. Denzel Washington and Jeff Bridges will be among those honored.• On Friday, Southern California’s air quality agency is scheduled to vote on a plan that could reduce emissions cuts from ports, rail yards and warehouses.• On Saturday, Representative Tom McClintock, a Republican from the Fourth District, holds a town-hall meeting in Roseville.It was on Jan. 30, 1931, that Charlie Chaplin’s “City Lights” had a gala premiere at the Los Angeles Theater. One of the great movie palaces, the theater had just been built, and Chaplin himself reportedly helped finance the construction so it would be finished in time for opening night.The silent film, released after the movie industry had already begun to embrace talkies, is now regarded as not only one of Chaplin’s best films, but one of the best films ever made.After its Los Angeles premiere, Chaplin showed the film in New York a few days later, where it earned praise from a New York Times reviewer. “Many of the spectators either rocking in their seats with mirth, mumbling as their sides ached, ‘Oh, dear, oh, dear,’ or they were stilled with sighs and furtive tears,” Mordaunt Hall wrote.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a third-generation Californian — born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U.C. Berkeley.
Good morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Democratic leaders in Sacramento told Xavier Becerra he had a big job ahead of him when he was appointed the state’s new attorney general.A week into the job, he appears to have his hands full.President Trump has introduced a flurry of orders with implications for California — among them, a threat to so-called sanctuary cities, plans for a Mexican border wall, and a temporary ban on the entry of refugees.We caught up with Mr. Becerra by phone. Below are excerpts from the conversation.What’s your read on Mr. Trump’s refugee order?What about the threat to withhold money from sanctuary cities?Is there any impediment to the government deporting California’s unauthorized immigrants?Mr. Becerra agreed to field a few reader questions. Ask here and we’ll publish his responses in a future newsletter: CAtoday@nytimes.com.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)• San Francisco sued President Trump over his order to withhold federal funding from so-called sanctuary cities. [The New York Times]• Democrats in Sacramento also ramped up the fight, advancing bills to make California a sanctuary state. [The Associated Press]• A California man and his 12-year-old daughter are stuck in Africa after Mr. Trump’s travel ban. [Los Angeles Times]• “Exemplary.” “Impeccable.” “A disaster.” “Far right.” Californians weighed in on Mr. Trump’s Supreme Court nominee. [Sacramento Bee]• Senator Dianne Feinstein on Senator Jeff Sessions: “How could we possibly conclude that this nominee will be independent?” [The New York Times]• Dozens of motorists crashed in dense fog in the San Joaquin Valley. The police said they were all driving too fast. [The Sentinel]• Two months after the kidnapping of Sherri Papini in Shasta County, many questions remain. [Sacramento Bee]• William A. Norris, a judge whose opinion presaged the legalization of gay marriage, died in Los Angeles. He was 89. [The New York Times]• A lawsuit filed on behalf of California ranchers challenges the endangered status of gray wolves. [Record Searchlight]• Tourists used to visit Napa Valley while ignoring the city of Napa. That is changing. [The New York Times]• Lefty O’Doul’s, a storied San Francisco baseball bar, is closing. Now a fight has broken out over its contents. [The Associated Press]• Rain Room, an exhibition that simulates an indoor rainstorm, now has a permanent home in Los Angeles. [Los Angeles Magazine]To escape the madding crowd, San Franciscans need not go far.Along the city’s northwestern corner is Lands End, a winding coastal trail with sweeping views of the Pacific Ocean and the Golden Gate.Omar Huerta, 26, shared a view he captured in December of the sunset peeking through the park’s trees.In the late 1800s, Lands End was developed as a seaside destination.Adolph Sutro, a silver mining millionaire and future San Francisco mayor, created a public garden and a family-friendly resort there.He also built the Sutro Baths, a three-acre complex of fresh and saltwater swimming pools that was open to all. There were slides, springboards and a high dive.While initially popular, the baths struggled financially. A fire destroyed what was left of them in 1966.The ruins became part of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area in 1973.Even if the crowds of people have dissipated, the area still draws flocks of visitors — its location on the tip of the San Francisco Peninsula has made it a stopover for a wide array of bird species.Want to submit a photo for possible publication? You can do it here.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a third-generation Californian — born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.
TIJUANA, Mexico — The sky had been dark since morning, the Baja sun a rumor behind banks of clouds settled comfortably over Tijuana’s haphazard hills. But that had not deterred hundreds of fans from gathering outside the high concrete walls of Club Tijuana’s Estadio Caliente hours before the Xoloitzcuintles, better known as the Xolos, played the first home game of their winter season.By 4 p.m., three hours before kickoff, Mexico’s largest tailgate party was in full swing. Tents had sprung up between the S.U.V.s and minivans that nearly filled the parking lot, and open grills sent banks of smoke into the cold, wet air. A crowd of local teachers snacked on ceviche and sipped Mexican red wine while, a few spots away, three flags — American, Mexican and the black Xolos banner — flew over a foldout beer pong table and a growing pile of empty Tecate cans. Roving musicians played norteño music for a few dollars a song, a tuba honking merrily over the thud of speakers set up in the back of pickup trucks.It was, in many ways, exactly what one might have expected from a tailgate party here, the American sporting tradition translated into the musical and culinary language of Tijuana, one of the world’s busiest border cities.Except for one thing: At least half of the cars bore California license plates.One of those cars belonged to Patty Martinez. She had awakened that morning at 4:30 to make the three-hour drive from her home in East Los Angeles to watch her favorite soccer team alongside other members of her California-based fan club, Xolos Forever Forever Xolos. (The Xoloitzcuintli, or Xolo (pronounced SHOW-low, is an indigenous breed of dog, and its image is prominent in the club’s branding.)In the two years since Martinez’s son got her interested in Xolos games, the other Californians in the X.F.F.X. crew have become some of her closest friends, gathering a few times each year for baby showers and to watch away games on television, texting daily, and seeing one another whenever they can at matches in Tijuana.Martinez, celebrating her 53rd birthday, had dressed for the game: a Xolos sweatshirt over a black-and-red Xolos T-shirt, accented with a pair of custom-made Xolos earrings. On her way out of town that morning, Martinez had stopped to pick up her 28-year-old daughter, Lorena, who gave her a knit hat with the Xolos colors: red, white and black.“I even got the nails, O.K.?” she said, flexing the fingers of her right hand as her left guided the car south on I-5, past the cool gray edge of the Pacific.By 1 p.m., Martinez — known in X.F.F.X. as Big Mama — was happily settled into a red folding chair, a shot of mezcal in one hand and, in the other, a taco folded around thin kerchiefs of carne asada and a pale green smear of homemade guacamole. Her friends Victor and Claudia Valadéz had arrived around the same time from Chula Vista, the San Diego suburb that, Victor joked, is sometimes known as “Chulajuana.”Just 10 years ago, the lot where they were encamped looked decidedly different. Before 2007, when Club Tijuana was founded as a second-division team, the site of Estadio Caliente was a muddy pit surrounded by a defunct racetrack and populated by hippos and alligators, part of a private zoo owned by the millionaire Jorge Hank Rhon. Hank’s many exploits over the years — including a run-in with the United States immigration authorities involving a suitcase full of elephant tusks and ocelot-skin jackets — earned him a notoriety to match his financial and political power in the city. In 2004, he leveraged his wealth and fame to win the city’s mayoral race, with promises to rehabilitate its seedy image.Three years later, in 2007, he founded the Xolos and, soon after, opened the stadium that now bears the name of the family company, Grupo Caliente, as do the casino and dog-racing track on the next lot and numerous other large developments around the city. (The zoo moved to an adjacent plot, where Hank’s camels and three white Bengal tigers are still visible from the parking lot.)Ricardo and Rodrigo Rodriguez, twins born in Tijuana who have spent the past 17 years living in San Diego, started attending games in 2009 along with their older brother, Oscar. The stadium was still under construction then, as it is now, and was at reduced capacity.“Back then you’d have to wear rain boots and you’d still be covered in mud,” Ricardo said. “It was,” he added, pausing for effect, “interesting.”Those were difficult times for Tijuana, too. In 2008, violence between the city’s competing drug cartels reached its peak just as the financial crisis decimated the tourism industry, which had been the city’s lifeblood for nearly a century.“Lots of people come here only with the intention of getting to the U.S.,” David Lomelí, a local secondary school teacher, said as he served burgers off a flaming grill. “People don’t feel rooted. They don’t feel that this is home. But the Xolos have given us some sense of union or identity.”That identity, at least from the Xolos perspective, is not bound by the city limits. The first team in Mexico’s Liga MX to go bilingual in its public communications — it has two press officers, one for Spanish-speaking reporters and another for English — the Xolos have from the start courted both an American audience and American players.Those efforts have been remarkably successful. According to Alejandro Serrano, the team’s administrative manager, ticket sales for the 27,000-seat stadium will put it at 90 percent capacity for the rest of the winter season.The Xolos are not the only team in Liga MX with recruiting programs across the border, of course, but they are a rarity in that they have a handful of starters — Paul Arriola, Joe Corona and Michael Orozco — who were born in the United States and have played for its national team. Arriola and Corona commute almost daily for games and practices from their homes in San Diego. Orozco, who grew up in Anaheim, Calif., has moved with his wife and children to a beachside home in Tijuana, which he said was “like coming home.”This heavily American stamp — the most visible sponsor inside Estadio Caliente is not Modelo or Corona but Bud Light — is more than a ploy to lure Americans to the city. Founded at a low point in Tijuana’s 127-year history, the Xolos were also part of a larger effort — along with the developing food and drink scene, which emerged around the same time — to define the city on better terms. The identity the team has captured is neither here nor there, but rather here and there.“We see ourselves as a regional team and try to be a mirror of what the region is,” said Roberto Cornejo, who has managed recruitment and youth programs for the team since 2008.Born in Mexico City and raised in San Diego, Cornejo commutes daily from his home in Chula Vista. “San Diego and Tijuana,” he said, “are really one city divided by a border.”Many of the fans who travel south for the games straddle that abstract line. Though they both live and work in San Diego, the Rodriguez twins recently moved the craft beer project that they started in a garage in Chula Vista to Tijuana, where, they said, the market for artisanal breweries is booming and, at least for now, less saturated.Born in San Francisco and raised in Los Angeles by her Nicaraguan mother, Patty Martinez has come to Tijuana regularly throughout her life, on beach vacations as a girl, to party as a teenager, or for dental and medical care as an adult. Her ties to Mexico developed over a lifetime spent in a neighborhood where, she said, “I hardly meet other Nicaraguans, but I’m surrounded by Mexicans.”Lorena, who started joining her mother at Xolos games last year, now has a portion of her life embedded in the city. “Even when they’re not playing, I find myself wanting to come down more and more,” she said. “I have cravings for the shrimp tacos and birria. And I have my friends here now, you know?”Just last year, she went to Mexico City as a member of the United States national team’s fan club, braving the soccer-crazed capital in an American jersey. But her favorite team, her home team, she said, is the one that plays just across the border.Tijuana’s transformation is, like the Estadio Caliente, a perennial work in progress. Though robberies have declined in recent years and the theatrical killings of the 2007-10 cartel wars have largely disappeared, violence remains rampant, with 2016 recording the highest number of homicides in the city’s history. Prostitutes still loiter in front of seedy hotels on Calle Coahuila, a short walk from the border and a 15-minute drive north of Estadio Caliente.For many Mexicans, the city remains a staging ground for journeys north. But while unemployment in Tijuana is below the national average, many people here still survive on limited incomes. That can make even the cheapest tickets for Xolos matches, which sell for 300 pesos (about $15), an unobtainable luxury.José Martin Gonzales Mendoza, who has worked for four years as a security guard at the stadium on game days, earns 200 pesos for a 13-hour shift that lasts until midnight. Most games, he brings his wife and children to the stadium, where they earn extra money by watching over the X.F.F.X. tailgate party while Martinez and the other Californians head into the stadium.Gonzalez recently used the extra income to buy his older son prescription glasses. His younger boy, Tomás, said he, too, hoped to go into the stadium one day to watch the home team play. For now, that remains a greater expense than his family can afford.That night, after the team’s 6-2 victory over Puebla, satisfied fans poured out of Estadio Caliente and back into the parking lot. As most people packed up to leave, Patty and Lorena Martinez poured another drink. They had booked a hotel room and would save the long drive back to Los Angeles for the next morning.Victor and Claudia Valadéz, postponing their trip back to Chula Vista for a few moments while the traffic thinned, wandered over with their 7-year-old son, Gael, who has his own season pass. He and Tomás yammered happily about the game in a Spanish sprinkled with English words and phrases.Patty Martinez gave a huge, hearty laugh and beamed over at the boys.“That’s our next generation,” she said. “Our American Xolos.”
Janet Napolitano, president of the University of California, knows exactly what’s at stake if President Trump shuts down an Obama administration program that has given work permits and protection from deportation to some 752,000 young undocumented immigrants. In 2012, in her previous job as secretary of Homeland Security, she signed the document — nothing more than a policy memo — that created the program.So when alarm spread among immigrants on college campuses following Mr. Trump’s election, Ms. Napolitano moved quickly to determine what the California system could do to shelter its students if he carried through on his pledges to cancel the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. The university estimates that almost 3,800 among its 190,000 students are undocumented, many but not all with DACA.Ms. Napolitano, retaining her law enforcement instincts, does not mention the word “sanctuary” when describing what the university could offer. “Sanctuary is such a vague term, we don’t use it,” she said crisply.Instead, the university has published detailed principles of support for undocumented students, including assurances that campus police would not question students solely about their immigration status or join any cooperation agreements with federal immigration authorities under the Trump administration. Through the Davis campus law school, the university is organizing legal help for students detained for deportation.Another worrisome prospect, Ms. Napolitano said, is that students could lose the permits that allow them to work. Undocumented students, including any losing DACA, will continue to pay in-state tuition and be eligible for state financial aid and for a revolving loan program funded, in part, by the university.“We want to do everything we can so students are safe on our campuses,” Ms. Napolitano said, “so they can focus on what they are there to do, which is to study.”Students at dozens of college campuses, galvanized by Mr. Trump’s depictions of immigrants as criminals or potential terrorists, have pressed administrators to provide sanctuary for those without legal papers. But universities have had differing ideas about what that would mean in practice, and most leaders have been careful to say they would not defy the law.Some institutions have flatly rejected sanctuary plans as encouraging lawbreaking. At New Mexico State University, the president, Garrey Carruthers, said that banning federal agents from campus might imperil its federal funding.One of the first presidents to declare a sanctuary campus explicitly was Michael S. Roth of Wesleyan, who announced in November that it “will not voluntarily assist” any efforts by federal authorities to deport students (a policy he reaffirmed on Jan. 29). Soon after, John Coatsworth, the provost of Columbia University, said that it would not allow immigration agents on campus without a warrant.Some administrators point out that student information, including their immigration status, is already protected under long-existing privacy laws requiring the authorities to show a warrant or court order before any data can be released without students’ consent.In Georgia, Emory, which is a private university, considered but ultimately decided against protective measures. “Emory is not seeking to establish itself as a sanctuary campus, for which there is no legal definition,” the university said in a Jan. 4 statement. Taking a tougher line, the University System of Georgia said that any call for sanctuary was “unacceptable” and added, “We expect our institutions to follow the law.”In his first formal briefing, on Jan. 23, Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, suggested that canceling DACA would not be a priority for the new administration, but he did not provide any explicit reassurance that the program would continue.Ms. Napolitano is still contemplating the bitter possibility that Mr. Trump will sweep away her most significant immigration accomplishment. She hopes to persuade him that the program is a good use of executive power, emphasizing that DACA immigrants pose little security risk because they pass background checks to get into the program.Her message for Mr. Trump: “Why waste resources trying to deport good students who’ve done everything right?”
ST. JOHN’S, Newfoundland — At the College of the North Atlantic here, a young Chinese woman stood discussing her future with two fellow students, a Bangladeshi man and a Korean woman, amid a flow of mostly pale Newfoundlanders in down coats and hoodies heading for class.“The environment here is really good, so I think for my health I will stay,” said Fei Jie, from China’s eastern Shandong Province. The others said they, too, were planning to remain in the country after graduation, eventually becoming Canadian citizens.Their path is no accident. They are three of hundreds of thousands of international students in Canada today as part of a government strategy to reshape Canadian demographics by funneling well-educated, skilled workers through the university system. It is an answer to Canada’s aging population and slowing birthrate, and an effort to shore up the nation’s tax base.In November, the federal government changed its electronic immigration-selection system, called Express Entry, to make it easier for international students to become citizens. And a bill pending in the Senate would restore a rule that counts half of students’ time spent studying in Canada toward the period of residency required for citizenship.The country needs talented immigrants to backfill a thinly spread, aging population. According to Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada, the country’s immigration department, immigrants already make up 75 percent of the annual net growth in the country’s work force and are expected to account for 100 percent within 10 years.The strategy, which builds on a decade-long trend and was formally laid out in 2014, seems to be working. In the 2015-16 school year, Canada’s international student population grew 8 percent to more than 350,000 — equal to roughly 1 percent of the country’s population. The number of international students in the United States is less than one-third of 1 percent of the population.Canada expects to have nearly half a million international students studying in the country within 10 years. And more than half its students from abroad hope to stay in the country and become Canadian citizens, according to a survey by the Canadian Bureau for International Education.“All of the building blocks are in place, just in terms of the reputation of our education system for quality, the reputation of the country as tolerant and safe, and the affordability of education in Canada and the opportunities that Canada gives to international students to be welcomed on a more permanent basis,” said Karen McBride, the president of the Canadian Bureau for International Education, an association of educational institutions.Internationalizing Canadian education promises a deep and lasting effect on the country, binding it to other nations and cultures through the family ties and the broader perspectives of international students who become citizens and may even rise to positions of national power. Canada’s new immigration minister, for example, arrived in the country as a Somali refugee and earned a law degree at the University of Ottawa.But the strategy may also lead to tensions similar to those seen in the United States and Europe as the makeup of Canadian society evolves and less educated segments of the mostly white work force feel pushed aside.Since the early 1970s, when Canada embraced multiculturalism, the percentage of what it calls “visible minorities” has ballooned to about 20 percent of the population.Statistics Canada, the country’s census bureau, predicts that the number will reach nearly 30 percent by 2030. Nonwhites will make up a majority of the population in Toronto and Vancouver.So far, Canadians have shown a remarkable equanimity toward the influx, one of the highest per-capita immigration rates in the developed world. While polls show a gradual uptick in concern about the flow of new arrivals, mostly tied to unskilled Syrian refugees, the country on the whole remains welcoming to outsiders.But non-Canadians are already crowding out local students at some of the country’s best-known schools. International students at McGill University in Montreal make up a quarter of total enrollments. In British Columbia, where students from abroad make up 18 percent of the total enrollment, people in the province are beginning to grumble that locals are being passed over in favor of non-Canadians who pay higher fees.The University of British Columbia created a controversy with its plans to spend 127 million Canadian dollars, roughly $95 million, to build a school, Vantage College, for international students — mostly Chinese — who need to improve their English before matriculating at the university.Similar tensions have plagued schools in the United States that increasingly rely on tuition from international students to balance their budgets.International students typically pay more than domestic students, and many, particularly from China, come from affluent families eager to establish a toehold in North America. The money these students bring helps subsidize education for domestic students, but can also distort local economies.About half of Canada’s inbound students come from China and the government wants even more. Former Immigration Minister John McCallum, recently named ambassador to China, met with Chinese officials in August, hoping to double or even triple the number of Canadian visa application centers in mainland China from the four the country has now, not including Hong Kong.Amit Chakma, the president of the University of Western Ontario who led a 2012 government advisory panel that developed the core of the government strategy, said there was plenty of capacity among smaller, high-quality institutions in Canada that are struggling to fill their classrooms as applications from high school graduates fall.Indeed, it’s not just major cities that are attracting students from abroad. High schools, colleges and universities across the country are seeing an influx of international students. The fastest growth in the past year has been on tiny Prince Edward Island, Canada’s smallest province. Yukon College’s website, meanwhile, has been translated into Chinese, Japanese, Korean and Portuguese.Even the broad middle of the country is getting its fair share. The Saskatchewan Institute of Applied Science and Technology in Regina, for example, has expanded its International English Language Testing System program to meet the demand, which has doubled, by non-Canadians who need to pass the English proficiency exam for immigration requirements.Jack Wu, who arrived from China, manages the design of circuit protection systems for hydro-electric transmission lines. He studied at the College of the North Atlantic in St. John’s before earning an electrical engineering degree in 2005 from Ontario’s Lakehead University. He and his wife immigrated through a provincial program for people who have studied in Newfoundland and Labrador. The process from student to citizen took them about two and a half years.“Our daughters were born here,” Mr. Wu said proudly, sitting in a Tim Hortons, the quintessentially Canadian fast-food chain. “They are Newfoundlanders.”
Usually, when a new president takes office in Washington, the only immediate issue involving Canada is whether the leader’s first foreign trip will be to Ottawa or Mexico City.But after the inauguration of President Trump, Canada quickly became embroiled in more substantive matters.While much remains to be resolved before any pipe layers get to work, Mr. Trump has resurrected the Keystone XL pipeline, which is intended to move diluted, tarlike bitumen from the oil sands in Alberta to American refineries on the Gulf of Mexico.Coincidentally, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his cabinet were meeting in Canada’s oil center — Calgary, Alberta — when Mr. Trump signed the pipeline’s reprieve on Tuesday. And they were quick to welcome the reversal of former President Barack Obama’s decision to refuse a permit for Keystone XL on environmental grounds. Now, however, Mr. Trudeau may be experiencing a bit of buyer’s remorse.Long before he became prime minister, Mr. Trudeau developed a consistent stance on the energy industry and the environment. Canada can’t deal with environmental issues like climate change without a strong economy, he has repeatedly said. And in Canada, the energy sector is a major part of the economy.Mr. Trudeau’s recognition of the energy industry’s importance appeared to be a key factor in Alberta’s decision, under Premier Rachel Notley, to adopt a carbon tax. But, as Clifford Krauss and I found this week, the return of Keystone XL may upset Canada’s plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.Extracting oil from the tarlike bitumen in the oil sands burns up a lot of fuel and generates substantial quantities of greenhouse gases. If Keystone XL goes ahead, many analysts, captains of industry and environmentalists say it will increase production at the oil sands and, thus, the amount of carbon they release into the air. When that is combined with increased emissions from two other pipeline projects Mr. Trudeau approved late last year, it’s not clear how the government will be able to meet its carbon-reduction targets.Negotiating Also high on Mr. Trudeau’s to-do list is resolving the future of the North American Free Trade Agreement. Wilbur L. Ross, the billionaire whom Mr. Trump has nominated to be commerce secretary, told the Senate that the new administration’s top priority would be making substantial changes to Nafta.Exactly what that means for Canada remains unclear. Mr. Trudeau, whose advisers were quick to reach out to Mr. Trump’s aides after the presidential election, has been playing down the effects on Canada, suggesting by extension that Mexico is the new administration’s target.“The administration has made it very clear, both to us and publicly, that they are not overly preoccupied with Canada in terms of much of their protectionism and much of the rhetoric they’ve put out,” Mr. Trudeau said in Saskatchewan.In The Upshot, Neil Irwin looked into what Mr. Trump could do and what new talks might produce.“This won’t be a one-way street,” Mr. Irwin wrote in his analysis. “Both Canada and Mexico expect concessions from the United States in return for concessions they make. And some of the things that the Mexican government most covets will rankle many Trump supporters.”Express Entry From St. John’s Newfoundland, Craig S. Smith reports on how Canada is luring international students “as part of a government strategy to reshape Canadian demographics by funneling well educated, skilled workers through the university system.”Survivor Chick Webster had a modest career as a National Hockey League player with the New York Rangers. In fact, he never scored a goal. But he has recently become a bit of a sports celebrity. Mr. Webster, who turned 96 in November, is believed to be the oldest living N.H.L. player.Curtis Rush and the photographer Ian Willms visited Mr. Webster at his home in Mattawa, Ontario, a logging town on an exceptionally beautiful stretch of the Ottawa River. “Webster does not like to talk about the Rangers too much because, he said, they did not treat him very well,” Mr. Rush wrote in The New York Times. “When he broke his wrist, they sent him down to the farm team in New Haven, at lower pay, and never called him back.”Your thoughts Mr. Trudeau’s vacation on the Aga Khan’s private island and his participation in Liberal Party fund-raisers have attracted a lot of attention from the news media in Canada. Last week, many readers of this newsletter responded to my request for their thoughts on this. Most wrote that it either wasn’t an issue or wasn’t a significant problem.“These ethics investigations are wonderfully unimportant,” Ross Johnson wrote from Edmonton, Alberta. “It shows just how mature and steady Canada is: If this is the best we can do in the scandal department, then there really is nothing going on up here.”Other readers said that while they would like to see fund-raising rules changed, they didn’t think the sessions impaired Mr. Trudeau’s fitness to govern. And several people said that while the vacation should have been disclosed in advance, it still wasn’t an important transgression.But there were a few readers who did find Mr. Trudeau’s actions improper.“Regardless of how arm’s length he says these meetings are, the optics are terrible,” Philip W. Unger wrote from Millbrook, Ontario. “Furthermore, politicians hardly have a sterling reputation for integrity when there is money on the line.”Here are some articles from The Times over the past week, not necessarily related to Canada and perhaps overlooked, that I found interesting:— Presidential approval is just one piece of what it will take to actually build the Keystone XL pipeline.— Hooked on cigarettes? Blame the Neanderthal in you.— Harold Hayes, “the last surviving member of a band of airborne American medics and nurses who crash-landed in Nazi-occupied Albania in 1943 and survived German attacks, blizzards and horrific privations on a 600-mile trek to their rescue on the Adriatic coast,” died at the age of 94.
Times Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times. In this story, the science reporter Denise Grady provides human backstory about her  article about a woman who, remarkably, recovered from colon cancer after treatment with cells from her own immune system.I’ve been meeting more and more people with cancer lately who would be desperately ill — or worse — had they not taken matters into their own hands and found their way into clinical trials in which they received experimental treatments that put the disease in remission.There were no guarantees. New treatments don’t always work, and experiments have risks. The patients I met are here to tell their stories because they’re among the lucky few, the successes. Still, the cancer landscape does seem to be brightening, if only just a bit, in large part thanks to immunotherapy, which includes various treatments that help the patient’s own immune system to fight cancer.The latest good news from the cancer front came last week, from Celine Ryan, a 51-year-old woman from Rochester Hills, Mich., a suburb of Detroit. She homeschools her five children, the youngest of whom is seven years old. Ms. Ryan has colon cancer, and two years ago, doctors found that despite surgery, radiation and chemotherapy, the cancer had spread and invaded her lungs, where scans detected 10 tumors.Ms. Ryan is an engineer and database programmer, and to her scientific mind, it seemed highly unlikely that more chemo would control the disease. Chemo made her sick the first time around, and she had every reason to belief it would do so again. She and her husband, who is also an engineer, agreed that she should forgo chemo and instead try to tap into a major research center for help.“I remembered that I had read about another cancer patient, Melinda Bachini. It stuck in my brain,” Ms. Ryan said. “I found out about this trial she did, and I said, ‘That’s what I want to do.’”A front-page article I wrote in May 2014 about Ms. Bachini, a paramedic in Billings, Mont., might have been the article that Ms. Ryan remembered. Ms. Bachini had a deadly cancer, cholangiocarcinoma, that had started in her bile duct; Ms. Bachini underwent surgery and several grueling rounds of chemo, but the cancer nontheless spread to her liver and lungs. In April 2012, her life expectancy was a matter of months. Ms. Bachini, 43 at the time, had six children and, like, Ms. Ryan, did not think further chemotherapy would help.Instead, she combed the internet looking for clinical trials and came upon one, run by Dr. Steven A. Rosenberg, at the National Cancer Institute, that made sense to her.She was accepted into the study, and got very lucky. Dr. Rosenberg’s team found that she had a type of cancer-killing immune cell that could destroy her tumors without harming normal cells. The researchers multiplied those cells in the lab and dripped more than 100 billion of them back into her. Ms. Bachini’s tumors melted away.Inspired by Ms. Bachini’s story, Ms. Ryan called the cancer institute. She was deferred twice because her tumors were not big enough to yield enough immune cells. But she persisted, and even sent the researchers screen shots from her scans, with measurements of tumors that she and her husband thought met the trial criteria. Eventually, she was accepted into the study and, like Ms. Bachini, was one of the fortunate ones: Now, thanks to the cell treatment and surgery, she is cancer-free.Ms. Ryan’s case made medical history, because it was the first time researchers found cells that could attack a common cancer causing mutation — a finding that may help thousands of other patients with the same mutation.In November 2015, after the first scan showed that her tumors had shrunk markedly, Ms. Ryan tracked down Ms. Bachini and emailed her. “Call me!” Ms. Bachini replied. Ms. Bachini and Ms. Ryan have been friends ever since and stay in touch by phone and on Facebook.“When Celine and I connected, I was so unbelievably happy for her,” Ms. Bachini said.They hope to meet in person, maybe by coordinating their checkups at the cancer institute. Both try to help other patients who are looking for help and considering clinical trials.Ms. Bachini needed more treatment recently, because tumors in her lungs began to grow again. She had surgery and was given an immunotherapy drug, a type called a checkpoint inhibitor, which has begun shrinking the tumors.“I spend a lot of time talking to patients, doing cancer advocacy stuff,” Ms. Bachini said. “It’s how I can pay it forward.”
WASHINGTON — Maybe the “Carlzner” shirts will make a comeback.When Washington Capitals defensemen John Carlson and Karl Alzner were teamed up a few years ago, they would parade around the locker room wearing T-shirts bearing that nickname.Teammates teased them, but the shirts were a hit with fans.“I thought they were really cool, especially when we were very young playing together,” Carlson said. “It was fun, and the fans really rallied around it.”The pairing of Alzner and Carlson goes back to the 2008-9 season, during their time with the Hershey Bears of the American Hockey League. Both had been drafted in the first round by the Capitals, Alzner in 2007 and Carlson the next year.In the minors, and early on with the Capitals, they did everything together: go out to dinner, watch movies, play video games, walk their dogs and ride to practice.“We were joined at the hip,” Alzner recalled.So it must have been a shock when Barry Trotz, who took over as the Capitals’ coach in 2014, split them up in the defensive pairings.After two years apart, though, Carlson and Alzner were reunited in early December, and so far, it looks like a smart move.After the change, Washington went 16-2-2 before Carlson was sidelined for six games with a lower-body injury. The Capitals entered the All-Star break with the N.H.L.’s best record (33-10-6), and Carlson returned to the lineup in Tuesday night’s 3-2 loss to the Islanders.Todd Reirden, the Capitals’ associate coach, who works with the team’s defensemen, said that separating Carlson and Alzner and then putting them back together helped both players.“I have seen individual growth while they were apart,” Reirden said. “But now I wanted to see how it looked when they were reunited.”The two always complemented each other in their styles of play. Alzner, 28, is a gritty, stay-at-home defenseman while Carlson, 27, is more offensive-minded.“They have that chemistry,” said Washington defenseman Matt Niskanen, who worked as Alzner’s partner until the December change.Niskanen credited Alzner’s puck handling and grinding for helping Carlson raise his game after a slow start.But it took a few games for the two to rediscover their old mojo.They were scored on in three straight games after being reunited, a chagrined Alzner recalled.Carlson said: “After being apart for two years, you just kind of lost that feeling and got used to someone else. I feel after the first couple of games, we did a really good job of breaking the puck out. We have gotten the pucks to the next level almost every time.”In the summer of 2014, the Capitals signed two high-priced free-agent defensemen, Brooks Orpik and Niskanen. Both of them came from Pittsburgh, where they had been coached by Reirden.Trotz and Reirden decided to play Carlson with Orpik and Alzner with Niskanen.Reirden thought the pairings would speed up the transition to his system, and he also had a hunch that Alzner and Carlson would benefit from a shake-up.“We felt as players they had some room to grow and some areas to improve on,” Reirden said. “We felt Matt and Brooks could bring out the best in those two.”Whatever doubts Carlson and Alzner may have had must have been eased by how seamless the transition went.By the 2015-2016 season, they were playing better than ever.“We both had our best seasons,” Alzner said.This season is shaping up to be even better. They credit the work they put in with Reirden, with whom they watch film on days off and on game days.“We have grown since we have gotten here,” said Alzner, who will be an unrestricted free agent in July. “It’s a big deal.”Alzner and Carlson have also been the Capitals’ ironmen. Including Tuesday’s game in Brooklyn, Alzner, who finished third in the league in blocked shots last season with 207, has played in 508 consecutive games. He is only the third defenseman since 1944 to have a streak of at least 500 consecutive games.Carlson had a streak of 412 games that ended in December 2015 because of a broken ankle, but he leads the Capitals in average ice time this season, at 22 minutes 53 seconds.“They really put the work in,” Niskanen said. “They are pros. They’re in the gym or the training room taking care of themselves every day, and I think that shows with their durability.”Alzner and Carlson met at rookie camp in the summer of 2008.“We were always paired together, in meetings together, in the hotels and traveling back and forth,” Carlson said. “It was easy being around such a nice guy at first, and it blossomed into a really good friendship that we’ve had for a long time now. In terms of hockey, we were very compatible.”During their inseparable days at the beginning of their Capitals careers, Alzner and Carlson had apartments in the same building. These days they are both married with young children; the Alzners live in Arlington, Va., and the Carlsons live in Chevy Chase, Md.But their friendship has endured, in part because of their mutual love of dogs. Alzner has three; Carlson has two. Even now, they sometimes walk their dogs together.“It’s really tough in the game today to have those type of relationships,” Reirden said of Alzner and Carlson. “It’s the longest-running friendship between defensive pairings that I’ve seen. I think it’s something that you don’t see much of anymore.“The closest guys that I can talk about having a relationship like that from my playing days would be Chris Pronger and Al MacInnis,” added Reirden, who was a teammate of theirs with the St. Louis Blues. “They were very good friends and challenged each other to improve every day.”The NBC Sports analyst Jeremy Roenick, an N.H.L. player for 20 years, marveled at the effectiveness of Alzner and Carlson and said friendship was a key part of it.“I think it’s a very valuable and awesome relationship that the two have,” Roenick said. “They really trust each other. You learn that very quickly. They know exactly where each other is going to be. They could almost play together blindfolded.”
The N.B.A.’s collective bargaining agreement can be labyrinthine, and when one considers the rigidity of the rules regarding trades, and the expectations of teams and their fans, the situation the Knicks face with Carmelo Anthony as the league’s Feb. 23 trading deadline approaches is a math problem worthy of an oversize chalkboard and a roomful of quantitative analysts.Anthony, a nine-time N.B.A. All-Star, a three-time Olympic gold medalist and a virtual lock for the Basketball Hall of Fame, is the face of the Knicks and their leading scorer. He claims Brooklyn as his hometown, is in his early 30s, and his fame helps bolster the team’s prominence.Unfortunately for the Knicks, he is one of the game’s highest-paid players. He also has a no-trade clause; cannot seemingly will his team into being a championship contender; does not appear to appreciate the team president Phil Jackson’s prized triangle offense; and has experienced a statistical drop-off this season that helped contribute to his not making an All-Star team. (The Knicks’ 20-27 record entering Friday night’s game did not help, either.) He will miss the game for the first time since the 2008-9 season.That has left Jackson to figure out how to shop Anthony to other teams for something the Knicks can claim as a victory, while also trying to persuade — or coerce — Anthony to accept such a deal. He would have to waive his no-trade clause.After multiple news outlets reported that an offer to trade Anthony to Cleveland for Kevin Love had been rejected — the Cavaliers apparently did not want to trade their All-Star forward for an older, more expensive, now former All-Star — the talk has shifted to a potential deal with the Los Angeles Clippers. That might get rid of Anthony, but it would probably be hard to sell as an improvement for the Knicks.Unless Derrick Rose is waived or traded, the Knicks would not be able to acquire the Clippers star Blake Griffin, as Rose and Griffin had their contracts extended using the designated player rookie scale, and the collective bargaining agreement forbids a team from having two such players on a roster.The Clippers would almost assuredly not part with either of their other key players, Chris Paul or DeAndre Jordan, which would leave the potential deal being some mix of draft picks and lesser players like Jamal Crawford, J. J. Redick and Austin Rivers. There are many possibilities, but the Knicks could even end up with Raymond Felton, one of the players they traded to Denver when they acquired Anthony in 2011.The problem, though, would be how to spin any of that into a victory. A trade for Crawford and Rivers would work under the salary-cap rules, but it would not free space in future years, as all of the players involved are under contract for the two years beyond this one. Crawford, 36, is even older than Anthony and in statistical decline, while Rivers, 24, has shown potential but has yet to break out into anything resembling a starring role. His critics have gone as far as saying that his roster spot is mostly a result of his father, Doc Rivers, being the Clippers coach.On top of the limitations of the players available, the Clippers owe their 2017 first-round pick to Toronto and their 2019 first-round pick to Boston. And because of league rules, they are prohibited from dealing their first-round picks in 2018 and 2020. So the earliest first-round pick they could offer the Knicks would be in 2021.Anthony, who would probably thrive alongside Jordan, Griffin and Paul, may be a flawed superstar, but it is hard to see how the Knicks would get better in the short or long term by making any deal that did not bring back one of those three players. So to make it work for the Knicks, a Clippers trade would have to involve a third team with draft picks or young assets to include.Should a deal worthy of Anthony’s talent and prominence not come together by the deadline, or in the off-season, the rift between Jackson and Anthony might be better solved by a counterintuitive approach: The two proud men could learn to work together.
As deterrents go, nothing Commissioner Rob Manfred announced Monday could have matched the 46-month prison term given to Chris Correa, the former St. Louis Cardinals scouting director who hacked the database of the Houston Astros in 2013 and 2014. By sending Correa away for nearly four years last June — and fining him almost $300,000 — a United States District Court judge gave a chilling warning to any executive who might be tempted to guess a former boss’s password.Manfred banned Correa for life on Monday, putting him in the dubious company of Pete Rose, the hit king who gambled away his baseball future, and Jenrry Mejia, the former Mets reliever and three-time drug cheat. Correa might never have worked again in baseball, anyway — teams have plenty of job applicants who are not convicted felons — but this made it official.Manfred also ordered the Cardinals to pay $2 million to the Astros — the maximum fine he was allowed to impose, according to the league — and to give Houston their top two picks in this June’s draft. The problem is that the Cardinals, somewhat conveniently, do not have a first-round pick this season; they lost it for signing the free-agent outfielder Dexter Fowler.Yes, the Astros might find a useful player or two from the picks they received on Monday, the 56th and 75th over all. In the history of the draft, the best players taken at No. 56 have been Jimmy Key and J. J. Hardy, and the best players taken at No. 75 have been Tino Martinez and Grady Sizemore.Yet a majority of players chosen in those spots have never spent a day in the majors. If baseball wanted to punish the Cardinals as severely as the legal system punished Correa, it would have made sure that St. Louis gave the Astros a future first-round pick.Manfred, a lawyer, has been commissioner for two years and has already been confronted with several unusual cases. In this instance, it seems implausible that Correa truly acted alone — some of the hacking was done in a spring training condominium he shared with fellow Cardinals employees. But neither investigation, by the government or by baseball, turned up a co-conspirator.If it had, perhaps baseball would have been as tough on the Cardinals as it was last summer on the Boston Red Sox, who were found to have broken the rules regarding international bonus pools. Limited on how much they could spend for individual players, the Red Sox signed several as a package deal, with the understanding that the money for lesser prospects would be redistributed to better prospects. Because the Red Sox were said to have engaged in a coordinated effort, they were banned from signing anyone in the 2016-17 international class.Apparently, because the Cardinals’ hacking was officially a one-man rogue operation, their punishment was lighter. Even so, Manfred made a point in the summary of his ruling to state that while St. Louis did not authorize the hacking, “as a matter of M.L.B. policy, I am holding the Cardinals responsible for his conduct.” Thus the fine and the forfeiture of draft picks, which were believed to be the most severe penalty of its kind ever given to an organization.“We respect the commissioner’s decision and appreciate that there is now a final resolution to this matter,” Cardinals Chairman Bill DeWitt Jr. said in a statement. “Commissioner Manfred’s findings are fully consistent with our own investigation’s conclusion that this activity was isolated to a single individual.”Manfred’s role in these matters is tricky, since he works for the owners. DeWitt, in fact, was the head of a search committee that led to Manfred’s hiring. And Manfred, so far, is not always taking the same approach in establishing disciplinary precedents.Last September, Manfred found that San Diego General Manager A. J. Preller had withheld critical medical information in trade talks, allowing the Padres to extract better prospects in return. One duped team, the Miami Marlins, chose to reverse a deal, but another, the Red Sox, did not. Once that played out, Manfred opted for a toothless penalty, suspending Preller for 30 days — a stretch that was over before the World Series even began — and taking no draft picks from the Padres.The Correa matter was much more serious, of course, since he illegally stole information from a rival team. The Astros’ general manager, Jeff Luhnow, had come over from the Cardinals and taken other St. Louis employees with him. In court, Correa stated that he was concerned that Luhnow and his lieutenants, who had built an internal database for the Cardinals, might have taken proprietary information with them to Houston.Yet Correa clearly tried to gain a competitive edge for the Cardinals, infiltrating the Astros’ system at critical points on the baseball calendar. On the third day of the 2013 draft, he viewed Houston’s detailed scouting reports on prospects. The next month, on the day of the nonwaiver trade deadline, he peeked at their notes on discussions with other teams.The Astros deserved compensation, and while they should have gotten a better draft pick from the Cardinals, the ones they got are assets, even given the long odds of finding a star. In 2015, the Los Angeles Dodgers made a trade with Baltimore that brought reliever Ryan Webb and the 74th overall pick. The Dodgers wanted the pick, not the pitcher — they quickly released Webb, whose $2.7 million salary reflected the industry value of the pick.The picks the Astros got on Monday carry literal value, too: the roughly $1.85 million in allotted bonus money that goes with them. That means that Luhnow, who is known for his draft creativity, will have that much more to spend on the draft this June, and the Cardinals will have that much less.Manfred acknowledged in his finding that the type of harm done to the Astros “is not amenable to precise quantification.” He should have gone further, but he did make the Cardinals a little weaker while making the Astros a little stronger. The harshest penalty, and the biggest deterrent, remains the 46 months the judge gave Correa.
Cat Marnell, once a young beauty editor at the now-closed Lucky magazine, is known for her drug use and for writing about her drug use — at first for xoJane, the online magazine headed by Jane Pratt, and when she flamed out there, at Vice, in a short-lived column called “Amphetamine Logic.” Her devoted and horrified readers thrilled to the descriptions of her benders — on heroin, PCP, crack cocaine, regular cocaine, Adderall and alcohol, among a medley of other narcotics and stimulants — delivered in a volley of capital letters and exclamation points, and larded with the names of beauty products, fashion brands and celebrities. Her arch prose style recalled the anomie of “The Andy Warhol Diaries,” the deadpan exposition of “American Psycho” and the girl-speak pioneered by the staff of Sassy, the teenage magazine edited by Ms. Pratt that was published from 1988 to 1996.Ms. Marnell turned the tropes of women’s magazine writing upside down, with stories like “The Art of Crack-tractiveness: How to Look and Feel Hot on No Sleep,” which offered tips like “Brush your teeth!” along with a how-to guide to real beauty products for fellow partyers who might, like Ms. Marnell, have spent the night in a warehouse, as she wrote, with a “bunch of U.K. dustheads for five straight hours.”It was irresistible, and also appalling, and the internet tied itself up in knots debating Ms. Marnell’s honesty, talent, authenticity and narcissism, along with the exploitative and enabling behavior of her many bosses. Naturally, she got a book deal and a half-million dollar advance from Simon & Schuster. That was she was able to produce her addiction memoir, “How to Murder Your Life,” out this week, is a startling feat, given her history of cycling through rehab and psych wards, and her continued prescription drug use. The book is as compelling — and as problematic — as her magazine writing: vivid, maddening, heartbreaking, very funny, chaotic and repetitive, as benders are.On a recent Tuesday, Ms. Marnell, now 34, welcomed me into her Chinatown apartment, a one-bedroom overlooking the on-ramp to the Manhattan Bridge. The place, which she rented a year and half ago, was decorated with stacks of addiction memoirs; a sheepskin rug upon which was laid a strand of blue Christmas lights aglow; a gray wool sofa; a few framed Takashi Murakami prints; and a poster of Harry Styles of the pop boy band One Direction.Birdlike and delicate-looking, Ms. Marnell wore bell-bottom jeans, a pink tank top and a waist-length wig in candy colors, one of a sizable collection she has amassed since her hair fell out a few years ago, she isn’t quite sure why. She ordered three cups of coffee from a nearby deli, smoked a Marlboro Light very quickly, blowing the smoke out of the sliding glass windows that open to a fire escape and then poured herself a glass of white wine.The following interview has been edited and condensed.I’ve just finished reading your book, which is harrowing, so I’m a little shaken.Dude, that was four years ago. I have everything now but hair, though I’m not in recovery and I’m not clean. People are like, “Is it so brave to tell everything?” I’m like, “No.” For me, being brave would be being in a program and getting clean, instead of “I found a way to talk about my problems ad nauseam and somehow get paid for it.” Not that I want to reduce what I’ve accomplished. I want to say good things.One idea about addiction is that it’s a way to impose structure on a chaotic world. Ann Marlowe’s memoir of her heroin addiction, “How to Stop Time: Heroin From A to Z,” out in 2000, is a compelling example. And you still take Adderall and Ambien, right?Yes. That’s really true. People think of addicts as being out of control, and they really are. But I’m also a control freak. I want to control everything with a pill, from my appetite to sleeping.Do you feel you’ve been exploited by the magazines you worked for?No. Addicts exploit people. I exploited every opportunity. I have my whole life. The thing about addiction, everyone is asking, Don’t you think addiction books are tired? But I think addiction is as human an experience as anything, like heartbreak. It’s like any relationship, a marriage, a divorce, it’s a relationship and it’s human. I wrote this book really for younger people, for the girl I used to be.Your father, a psychiatrist, prescribed you Ritalin when you were a teenager.It’s so complicated. The thing is, the A.D.H.D. drugs did help. If you had seen my grades, failing school — failing! — and the only thing I had to do was take a pill? That shows the deficit.If my father had been a gun owner, he wouldn’t have thought twice about having a gun in his office, and I wouldn’t have touched it or done anything violent. But in the same way, as a doctor, he didn’t think twice about having samples of Zoloft in his home office. And at 12 years old I did steal samples of antidepressants and bring them to school and take them in front of my friends because I wanted to be cool. I think I am hard-wired for addiction. My father is a good man, and a good dad, and so ethical and I manipulated him for years. But this is the problem. Parents are putting their children on drugs, but they don’t think of them as drugs. They think of them as medication.You were good at magazines, even when you were a little girl, making zines up in your bedroom. You write that you always wanted to be a beauty editor.Condé Nast editors were like movie stars to me. When I got to Lucky and saw them in the halls, I wanted to huff Anna Wintour. I would stare at Grace Coddington and her fruity red hair. I wanted to be like them so badly, and I did everything I could to fit in. I want my ashes sprinkled in the Condé Nast library. I have a whole collection of magazines in storage. Italian Vogues. Lucky was on the same floor as the international editions, and I got a lot there.I think about Diana Vreeland, she was so fabulous. Her “Why Don’t Yous” were better than anything on the internet. I’ve been trying to start a list of my own. I just thought of one yesterday: Why don’t you cultivate a wee garden of carnivorous plants so you can lord over them?So magazines were everything to me; it never felt like work. It’s crazy that they are nothing now. I feel so embarrassed having this sleazy book sometimes. Did I just sell out everyone in my life including my parents?Let’s talk about your internet reputation. If you Google “Cat Marnell,” the predominant image is of you in a slip, with smeared lipstick and matted hair and words written in Sharpie on your forearms. Is this the result of a bender or was it your intention to go for a full-on Courtney Love look?I’ve always homaged. Let’s just say it was one night, and it was intentional. It interests me that women paint their face every day. So I was at an event, and I just smeared it.On purpose?Yes. The reason it’s used over and over is because I never showed up for that many things. I couldn’t get out of bed. But as a beauty editor who had a drug addiction at the same time, when I got positive attention for that, things just started to meld. Also, I was smoking a lot of PCP.Over the years of writing the book, I couldn’t be high every day. I couldn’t be high. I had to take my drugs as prescribed. People still come around wanting to smoke PCP. People don’t want you to change. But I would never go back. The one thing I regret is I had these black silk blackout curtains a friend who works at Helmut Lang gave me. They were thumbtacked over my windows; I didn’t have light in my apartment for years. I would go to bed at 9 a.m. I wish I had saved the fabric and made it into a gown and worn it to my book party. That’s a “Why Don’t You?!” “Why don’t you save your blackout curtains and sew them into a gown?”Your book is dedicated to “all the party girls.” Can you elaborate?I always wanted to be a party girl. But party girls don’t exist in recovery or rehab. I didn’t know until I lost my career that I was an addict and not just a person with problems. Girls come up to me in the nightclubs now, and I see them trotting around in their miniskirts and their flea market rabbit coats and I love them. I was lucky enough to have such strong female mentors, surrogate mother figures like Jean Godfrey-June [Lucky’s beauty director and one of Ms. Marnell’s long-suffering bosses] in roles I forced on them. Now, I don’t have a way to mentor young girls. I don’t work in magazines or have a job. I can’t coach them, but I can talk from an authentic place about what it’s really like to go through this stuff. I’m a privileged person, I’ve never had to struggle, but I’ve been through it.I really think the only thing about being younger is that you look good. It’s what they give you to compensate for the fact you’re so unbelievably insecure. I love the girls on the comeup. I love these Instagram models who turn around and get things done. There’s no right way to be a woman. That’s why I feel so protective of the young party girls who are so smart but think it’s all about being sexy and going home with the right guys. All I wanted when I was young was to be cool. Now that I’m cool, I just want to go to Europe. If I were 23, I would have fan-ed out, I would have been obsessed with, quote-unquote, Cat Marnell.
LIVERPOOL, England — This time, there would be no knockout blow. There would be no sense that once again, a meeting between Liverpool and Chelsea would decide something, would decide everything. This time there would be only bruising, and bruises heal.By most standards, the rivalry between these two clubs is a young one, a distinctly 21st-century phenomenon, hardly older than Facebook. But since 2003, they have conjured from nothing one of the fiercest feuds that English soccer can offer.The flames have been fueled, in part, by the sense that each team sees in the other its polar opposite. It is telling that the songs Liverpool fans deploy to deride Chelsea focus on Chelsea’s supposed lack of history, and that Chelsea supporters’ rebuttal concentrates on Liverpool’s more recent failings.In Liverpool’s eyes, Chelsea is Roman Abramovich, the team’s wealthy Russian owner, and success acquired through wealth; it is arriviste and vulgar. In Chelsea’s eyes, Liverpool is harking back to a distant past; it is old and irrelevant. The relationship is so toxic, perhaps, because they identify in each other something they lack themselves.Just as important as the contrast in self-image, however, is that their meetings have — at least since 2003, the year the rivalry erupted — tended to be so high-stakes.They have not always been pretty. Jorge Valdano, at the time a director at Real Madrid, once claimed that Chelsea and Liverpool’s encounters summed up all that was wrong with soccer. But they have rarely been less than significant. With remarkable frequency, these games have defined one or the other team’s season; more than once, they have been decisive for the Premier League as a whole.None, perhaps, have been quite so significant as Chelsea’s victory in 2003 that took it to the Champions League at Liverpool’s expense. That match was a key moment in persuading Abramovich to save the club from financial despair. And none have been quite so raucous as Liverpool’s revenge in 2005, when it knocked Chelsea out of the Champions League at the semifinal stage on the way to its triumph in the final in Istanbul.But those games were just the start. There have been finals in both the F.A. Cup and the League Cup, won by Chelsea. It was Liverpool that ended Chelsea’s 86-match home unbeaten streak in 2008, and Liverpool’s win at Stamford Bridge last season kick-started the run that eventually cost Coach José Mourinho his job.Twice, the league title itself has been snatched or surrendered: in 2010, when Chelsea won by 2-0 at Anfield to seal a championship for Carlo Ancelotti, and in 2014, when Chelsea effectively crushed Liverpool’s hopes of a first title since 1990 with the same score.Tuesday’s edition seemed ready to attain a similar status. It had the air of a turning point: A Chelsea win would have moved Manager Antonio Conte and his players within realistic touching distance of the Premier League title; a Liverpool victory might have proved the point at which Chelsea’s advantage at the summit of the league standings started to erode.In the event, neither happened; there was no knockout blow, only minor damage in a 1-1 draw. Chelsea’s wounds will, in all probability, heal a little sooner. Conte’s team could have won had Diego Costa converted a late, disputed penalty kick, but Chelsea still managed to extend its Premier League lead. With Arsenal having lost at home to Watford and Tottenham having tied lowly Sunderland on the road, Chelsea sits 9 points ahead of second place.A share of the spoils was less palatable to Liverpool.Manager Jürgen Klopp was in an ebullient mood afterward, insisting that if most fans had been offered in the summer “a time machine, to take us to this point in the season, in this position, with 15 games to go and a full squad,” they would have gladly accepted it.They would, of course: Liverpool was not expected to mount a title challenge this year. The received wisdom, at the start of the season, was that Klopp’s target in his first full year in England would be to restore Liverpool to the Champions League, once a frequent destination for Liverpool but, since 2009, a most elusive goal. This draw may not have advanced the club’s hope of winning the league, but it has not killed it off entirely, either. There remains a distant glimmer of hope. That represents progress; it just does not feel like that.To some extent, Klopp has only himself to blame. Liverpool is a club predisposed to inflated hope, and a searing start to the season — victories over Arsenal and Chelsea on the road — served as license to dream. A free-flowing attack, scorers of more Premier League goals than any other, masked deficiencies on defense and in goal. Klopp’s bullish charisma seemed to have rubbed off on his players, and Liverpool’s absence from other European competitions seemed to negate fears over the holes in the squad.And then, over a bitter January, it all fell apart. Injury, bureaucracy and international commitments deprived Klopp of several key players. Elimination from the two domestic tournaments in the space of a week highlighted just how thin his resources, beyond his top 14 or 15 players, really are. He has been accused of lacking a Plan B, an alternative way of playing to break down stubborn defenses — a somewhat woolly concept in English soccer still regarded as the hallmark of a great coach.Klopp has sensed that; he made a point Monday night of telling Liverpool — and he gave the impression of speaking about the fans as much as the players — not to lose its nerve. Everything is still in play, he said; the season is far from over.He is right. Liverpool may not be able to win the league, not from here, not with Chelsea running out of challenging opponents and far from running out of steam, but then that was only ever a hope. Liverpool and Klopp remain on track — more or less — for what they were supposed to achieve this season. That it feels like a disappointment is not a sign that they have lost their way. It indicates, instead, that they have simply traveled faster, and further, than anyone expected.
BEIJING — On a windswept lot near Beijing’s main airport, Lu Qun talks up the electric sports car he hopes will transform him into China’s Elon Musk.“This is a real performance car,” the entrepreneur boasted of his sleek, gray-and-black Qiantu K50. “It’s fun. You can feel the quality. You’ll love driving this car.”For Mr. Lu, 48, the roadster is his best chance to make it big. After a lifetime of obscurity creating vehicles for other companies, the bespectacled engineer is betting that the rise of electric cars will propel his company — and his country — into the automotive spotlight.“Traditional auto manufacturers are constrained by their old models,” he said. “We can see things with fresh eyes.”Across China, government officials, corporate executives, private investors and newcomers like Mr. Lu are in a headlong rush to develop a domestic electric car industry. The country’s goal, like Mr. Lu’s, is to capitalize on the transition to electric to turbocharge the country’s lagging automobile sector to become a major competitor to the United States, Japan and Germany.That has been a goal of China’s industrial planners for decades, as the government has lavished resources on building homegrown automakers and discriminated against foreign players.But so far, that effort has failed.Local manufacturers have lacked the brands, technology and managerial heft to outmaneuver their established rivals, either at home or abroad. Chinese consumers have preferred more reliable Buicks, Volkswagens and Toyotas to the often substandard offerings from domestic manufacturers, while little-known Chinese models have struggled to gain traction overseas.Electric vehicles could offer a second chance — one China’s policy makers do not intend to miss.They targeted electric cars for special support in an industrial policy called “Made in China 2025,” which aims to foster upgraded, technologically advanced manufacturing. By 2020, Beijing expects its automakers to be able to churn out two million electric and hybrid vehicles annually — six times the number produced in 2015.This time, China’s carmakers may be better positioned. Since electric vehicles are a relatively new business for all players, Chinese manufacturers and international rivals are largely starting from the same point.“There is a smaller gap between where China is today and the rest of the world” in electric cars, said Bill Russo, managing director at Gao Feng Advisory, a Shanghai consultancy, and a former Chrysler executive. “There is room for newer start-up companies to dream big in China.”Mr. Lu is one of those dreamers.Fascinated by cars since he was a boy, he studied automotive engineering at Beijing’s prestigious Tsinghua University. Upon graduating in 1990, he joined the research and development team at the China-based joint venture of Jeep, then a division of Chrysler.During his time there, which included two years in Detroit, Mr. Lu came to feel such overseas operations had limited prospects in China — the ventures’ partners would try to balance their interests, and so were slow to develop strategies and make decisions.So in 2003, he and nine colleagues started CH-Auto Technology Corporation as a specialty research and design shop for the local car industry. Since then, the firm has designed vehicles for some of China’s biggest automakers.Mr. Lu decided to start manufacturing his own vehicles because of the shift to electric. Since producing electric cars requires new parts and technologies, he believed a small entrant could better compete with these new vehicles than traditional automakers.“Electric vehicles won’t just replace cars with conventional engines, but they will bring a huge change to the entire car industry,” Mr. Lu said. “We wanted to be part of this revolution.”The result is the K50. Designed at his research center, the two-seater has a light, carbon fiber exterior and a console stuffed with touch screens. Rows of batteries propel the roadster to a top speed of about 120 miles per hour and carry it as far as 200 miles on a single charge.No longer content to watch others produce his designs, Mr. Lu is currently constructing a $300 million factory in Suzhou, a city near Shanghai, to manufacture 50,000 cars a year. In all, he expects to invest as much as $1.4 billion into his venture over five years.He did not specify what the car would sell for, but Mr. Lu intends to price the K50 at the top of the market when it goes on sale this year.That sets CH-Auto on a collision course with the industry’s flagship: Tesla.Elon Musk’s company already has an edge. While Mr. Lu is building his business from scratch, Tesla has been established in China since 2013. CH-Auto will have to persuade wealthy customers to plunk down a large sum on an unfamiliar brand — Qiantu — over Mr. Musk’s recognizable models.Mr. Lu nevertheless remains confident. He argues the sporty K50 will appeal to a more leisure-oriented driver than Tesla’s cars. As a logo, the company has chosen the dragonfly, because its managers believe the speedy, nimble insect has similar attributes to his electric car. To market it, Mr. Lu is considering opening showrooms in major Chinese cities, backed by a platform to sell online.Elon Musk “is someone I can learn from,” he said. “Tesla has huge symbolic significance because it is the first company to make people believe a business model solely around electric vehicles is possible.”But, he added, “we are not looking to create the Chinese Tesla.”When it comes to competing with Tesla, Mr. Lu can count on ample help from the Chinese government.To bring down costs and spur demand, the state has unleashed a torrent of cash. It has offered subsidies to manufacturers and tax breaks for buyers, and plowed investments into charging stations to make electric cars more practical.In all, UBS Securities estimates that the government spent $13 billion promoting electric vehicles in 2015 alone. So far, Mr. Lu has financed the K50 through loans and injections of fresh capital, but says he “won’t refuse” government subsidies if they become available.Some analysts fear the state’s largess could prove as much bane as boon.China may be recreating the waste and excess in electric cars that has plagued other state-targeted sectors, like steel and renewable energy, without spurring the technological innovation the economy needs to compete. And even though China’s car market is the world’s biggest, it is still unlikely to absorb all of the electric vehicle projects underway today.“They are fueling overcapacity, with a lot of wasted money, and I’m doubtful that in the end you’ll have a successful electric car industry,” says Crystal Chang, a lecturer at the University of California, Berkeley who studies China’s auto industry policies.Significant sums have already been squandered. In September, the Finance Ministry fined five companies for defrauding the government of $150 million by fabricating sales of electric vehicles to obtain more subsidies, and several companies have failed to make an impression.Mr. Lu is certain, however, that the K50 stands out in a crowded field. The car has already gotten some advance buzz; a review on one popular Chinese website praised its design as “beautiful” and “avant-garde” and its body as “very muscular.”“A big advantage they have is their knowledge of what it takes to build a quality vehicle,” said Jack Perkowski, managing partner of the Beijing-based consulting firm JFP Holdings and a veteran of China’s car sector. “They have a better chance than many others because of that.”Mr. Lu is counting on it.“There are a lot of electric vehicle companies and hot projects attracting a lot of money,” he said. “Not every company and not every car will be successful.”
BEIJING — Xu Zhengming was lugging a 36-inch flat-screen television through the Beijing West Railway Station on his way home for China’s Lunar New Year. Another passenger was hauling a tub of meat. And many migrant workers returning to their home villages carried bundles of clothes and gifts for children they see maybe once a year.They all said that they could not go home empty-handed for China’s biggest holiday. Even if that meant carting a television for two days across 1,000 miles.“I get to go back just once a year. It’s a long way,” Mr. Xu said as he heaved the television, bundled in protective clothing, through the railway station. He was headed to a village outside Chengdu, the capital of the southwestern province of Sichuan, a journey he estimated would take about 20 hours.“My father is in the countryside, and the family is hard up,” said Mr. Xu, a middle-aged construction laborer in Beijing, the Chinese capital. “He always wanted a flat-screen television, so I’m taking mine home to give him.”He and most other passengers at this cavernous, thrumming station were among hundreds of millions of Chinese on the move for the Lunar New Year. Many wore red hats or scarves, the color of good luck. While the total number of holiday travelers is hard to pin down, this is the world’s largest annual migration.Zhang Kemin, a restaurant worker dragging a plastic tub holding about 18 pounds of beef and lamb, said he was taking the meat home to Hebei Province, adjacent to Beijing, to make boiled dumplings filled with a mix of meat and vegetables, an essential part of the holiday food in northern China.“There’s pork at home,” he explained.In the days before the holiday, big cities, like Beijing, and the coastal industrial regions exhale tens of millions of workers who head back to their hometowns and villages by train, plane, bus, car and motorbike for this family holiday of marathon eating, fireworks and paying respects to relatives. This year, the festivities start on Friday evening, when the country says goodbye to the Year of the Monkey and welcomes the Year of the Rooster.On Thursday, the Beijing West Railway Station hummed like a giant boot camp, with the police, paramilitary troops and station staff members hustling passengers into waiting rooms to be corralled onto trains. Workers at the station said the holiday rush was more orderly than a decade ago, when heaving crowds threatened to overwhelm stations.“It used to be crazy, but it’s a lot better now,” said Yang Guibao, a bald 64-year-old cleaner at the station. “They add many more trains for the Spring Festival, and the passengers don’t have to be so packed,” he said, using another name for the Lunar New Year.With a wag of his finger, he warned, “There are still pickpockets around, but there are also plainclothes cops.”China’s trains have become more numerous and faster than even a few years ago. More people go by car or plane, and they are not as bent on all going home at the same time. Some visit at quieter times of the year. China’s expanding high-speed rail network now covers about 12,500 miles of track. The railway administration has cracked down on ticket scalpers, and it has become common to order tickets online or from vending machines.So while the holiday migration is still daunting, it’s not as crazy as before.“Before it took a day on a train, but now it takes three and a half hours,” said Zhang Guiping, a 62-year-old businesswoman waiting for a train to Fuping, a county in Hebei Province. She said she had been in Beijing petitioning the government over a land dispute. Despite her feud with officialdom, she said she was happy with the better trains.“There are more trains, the security checks take less time, and it’s easier to buy tickets,” she said.The Chinese transportation authorities have estimated that people will make close to three billion journeys over this Lunar New Year travel period, including 356 million trips by train. But those numbers can sound misleadingly large. Many people take multiple journeys — by train and bus — to get home and then return to work, so the actual number of bodies on the move is lower than those numbers may suggest.That does not mean that the holiday rush is a tranquil experience.The Beijing West Railway Station, in particular, is an unsightly monument to poor planning that opened in 1996, and its construction was blighted by corruption. Officials estimated that in the 40-day holiday travel period that began in mid-January, the station would send off 11.8 million passengers, 6 percent more than last year, Chinese state radio reported.People must steel themselves for big crowds, and then they scramble to jump on trains and find space for the gifts and treats that many take home. The official Lunar New Year break lasts a week, but the traditional festival ends after its 15th day. Many migrant workers from the countryside linger at home for precious time with children and parents, whom they rarely or never see the rest of the year.But Wang Tianchang, a 32-year-old migrant laborer who had been sleeping on a sack of bedding in a train station waiting room, said he was not taking home any gifts for his children. His boss on a building site had not paid him $150 owed in wages.“Things are expensive here. I haven’t bought a thing,” he said. But he said, “It’s really important to go home for the Spring Festival. You can see your wife and kids.”
Over the last decade, Christians in the United States have grown increasingly alarmed about the persecution of other Christians overseas, especially in the Middle East. With each priest kidnapped in Syria, each Christian family attacked in Iraq or each Coptic church bombed in Egypt, the clamor for action rose.During the campaign, President Trump picked up on these fears, speaking frequently of Christians who were refused entry to the United States and beheaded by terrorists of the Islamic State: “If you’re a Christian, you have no chance,” he said in Ohio in November.Now Mr. Trump has followed through on his campaign promise to rescue Christians who are suffering. The executive order he signed on Friday gives preference to refugees who belong to a religious minority in their country, and have been persecuted for their religion. The president detailed his intentions during an interview with the Christian Broadcasting Network on Friday, saying his administration is giving priority to Christians because they had suffered “more so” than others, “so we are going to help them.”But if Mr. Trump had hoped for Christian leaders to break out in cheers, that is, for the most part, not what he has heard so far. A broad array of clergy members has strongly denounced Mr. Trump’s order as discriminatory, misguided and inhumane. Outrage has also come from some of the evangelical, Roman Catholic and mainstream Protestant leaders who represent the churches most active in trying to aid persecuted Christians.By giving preference to Christians over Muslims, religious leaders have said the executive order pits one faith against another. By barring any refugees from entering the United States for nearly four months, it leaves people to suffer longer in camps, and prevents families from reuniting. Also, many religious leaders have said that putting an indefinite freeze on refugees from Syria, and cutting the total number of refugees admitted this year by 60,000, shuts the door to those most in need.“We believe in assisting all, regardless of their religious beliefs,” said Bishop Joe S. Vásquez, the chairman of the committee on migration for the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops.Jen Smyers, the director of policy and advocacy for the immigration and refugee program of Church World Service, a ministry affiliated with dozens of Christian denominations, called Friday a “shameful day” in America’s history.It remains to be seen whether Mr. Trump’s executive order will find more support in the pews. During the campaign, Mr. Trump successfully mined many voters’ concern about national security and fear of Muslims. He earned the votes of four out of every five white evangelical Christians, and a majority of white Catholics, exit polls showed.Christian leaders who defended Mr. Trump’s executive order were rare this weekend. One of the few was the Rev. Franklin Graham, the son of the evangelist Billy Graham and the president of Samaritan’s Purse, an evangelical aid organization. Mr. Graham has long denounced Islam as “evil,” and in July 2015 proposed a ban on Muslims entering the United States as a solution to domestic terrorism, months before Mr. Trump made his first call for the same.In a statement on Saturday, Mr. Graham said of refugees: “We need to be sure their philosophies related to freedom and liberty are in line with ours.” He added that those who follow Sharia law — a set of beliefs at the core of Islam — hold notions “ultimately incompatible with the Constitution of this nation.”Jim Jacobson, the president of Christian Freedom International, which advocates for persecuted Christians, applauded the executive order and said: “The Trump administration has given hope to persecuted Christians that their cases will finally be considered.”Among the claims Mr. Trump made at his campaign rallies was that the Obama administration had denied refugee status to Christians, and had given preference to Muslims.“How unfair is that? How bad is that?” he told supporters at a rally in St. Clairsville, Ohio, interlaced with boasts about his “tremendous evangelical support.”The contention was consistent with the conspiracy theories held by some conservative Christians that Mr. Obama was secretly a Muslim, and that he was turning a blind eye to the suffering of Christians while using the reins of government to increase the Muslim population of the United States.But the claim is simply untrue. In 2016, the United States admitted almost as many Christian refugees (37,521) as Muslim refugees (38,901), according to the Pew Research Center.While only about one percent of the refugees from Syria resettled in the United States last year were Christian, the population of that country is 93 percent Muslim and only five percent Christian, according to Pew. And leaders of several refugee resettlement organizations said during interviews that it takes 18 months to three years for most refugees to go through the vetting process to get into the United States. Many Syrian Christians got into the pipeline more recently.“We have no evidence that would support a belief that the Obama administration was discriminating against Christian populations, said the Rev. Scott Arbeiter, the president of World Relief, the humanitarian arm of National Association of Evangelicals.His organization has resettled thousands of Muslim refugees, with the help of a network of 1,200 evangelical churches. Mr. Arbeiter said that World Relief is opposed to “any measure that would discriminate against the most vulnerable people in the world based on ethnicity, country of origin, religion, gender or gender identity. Our commitment is to serve vulnerable people without regard to those factors, or any others.”He said that World Relief had already gathered 12,000 signatures from evangelical Christians for a petition opposing Mr. Trump’s executive order.“We’re going to call out to our network, the 1,200 churches that are actively involved, he said, “and ask them to use their voices to change the narrative, to challenge the facts that drive the fear so high that people would accept this executive order.”
Over the past decade, Christians in the United States have grown increasingly alarmed about the persecution of other Christians overseas, especially in the Middle East. With each priest kidnapped in Syria, each Christian family attacked in Iraq or each Coptic church bombed in Egypt, the clamor for action rose.During the campaign, Donald J. Trump picked up on these fears, speaking frequently of Christians who were refused entry to the United States and beheaded by terrorists of the Islamic State: “If you’re a Christian, you have no chance,” he said in Ohio in November.Now, President Trump has followed through on his campaign promise to rescue Christians who are suffering.The executive order he signed on Friday gives preference to refugees who belong to a religious minority in their country, and have been persecuted for their religion.The president detailed his intentions during an interview with the Christian Broadcasting Network on Friday, saying his administration is giving priority to Christians because they had suffered “more so” than others, “so we are going to help them.”But if Mr. Trump had hoped for Christian leaders to break out in cheers, that is, for the most part, not what he has heard so far.A broad array of clergy members has strongly denounced Mr. Trump’s order as discriminatory, misguided and inhumane. Outrage has also come from some of the evangelical, Roman Catholic and mainline Protestant leaders who represent the churches most active in trying to aid persecuted Christians.By giving preference to Christians over Muslims, religious leaders have said the executive order pits one faith against another. By barring any refugees from entering the United States for nearly four months, it leaves people to suffer longer in camps, and prevents families from reuniting.Also, many religious leaders have said that putting an indefinite freeze on refugees from Syria, and cutting the total number of refugees admitted this year by 60,000, shuts the door to those most in need.“We believe in assisting all, regardless of their religious beliefs,” said Bishop Joe S. Vásquez, the chairman of the committee on migration for the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops.Jen Smyers, the director of policy and advocacy for the immigration and refugee program of Church World Service, a ministry affiliated with dozens of Christian denominations, called Friday a “shameful day” in United States history.It remains to be seen whether Mr. Trump’s executive order will find more support in the pews.During the campaign, Mr. Trump successfully mined many voters’ concern about national security and fear of Muslims. He earned the votes of four out of every five white evangelical Christians, and a majority of white Catholics, exit polls showed.In interviews on Sunday, churchgoers in several cities were sharply divided on the issue, including on whether Christian teachings supported giving priority to Christians.“Love thy neighbor” was cited more than once, and by both sides: It was seen as both a commandment to embrace all peoples and to defend one’s actual neighbors from harm.“You look at a city like Mosul, which is one of the oldest Christian populations in the world,” said Mark Tanner, 52, a worshiper at Buckhead Church, an evangelical church in Atlanta, referring to the besieged Iraqi city. “There’s a remnant there that want to stay there to be a Christian witness.”“So yeah,” he continued. “We should reach out to everyone, but we have to be real about it and as far as who you let come into the country.”Nmachi Abengowe, 62, a native of Nigeria who attends Oak Cliff Bible Fellowship in Dallas, cited Muslim-on-Christian violence in Africa in defending Mr. Trump’s preference for Christian refugees.“They believe in jihad,” he said of Muslims. “They don’t have peace. Peace comes from Jesus Christ.”That was not the view of Makeisha Robey, 39, who was at the Atlanta church. “I think that is just completely opposite what it means to be a Christian,” she said. “God’s love was not for you specifically. It’s actually for everyone, and it’s our job as Christians to kind of enforce that on this planet, to bring God’s love to everyone.”John and Noreen Yarwood, who attended Mass at the Co-Cathedral of St. Joseph, a Catholic church in Brooklyn, said they feared that a policy of preference for Christians could in practice become a preference for certain denominations of Christianity over others.“What does this administration mean by Christian?” Mr. Yarwood, 37, asked. He said that refugees are deserving of help and mercy “because of desperation and poverty,” not because of their religion.“This is not grace,” he said of the president’s order. “It doesn’t follow Christian teachings.”Christian leaders who defended Mr. Trump’s executive order were rare this weekend.One of the few was the Rev. Franklin Graham, the son of the evangelist Billy Graham and the president of Samaritan’s Purse, an evangelical aid organization.Mr. Graham has long denounced Islam as “evil,” and in July 2015 proposed a ban on Muslims entering the United States as a solution to domestic terrorism, months before Mr. Trump made his first call for the same.In a statement on Saturday, Mr. Graham said of refugees, “We need to be sure their philosophies related to freedom and liberty are in line with ours.”He added that those who followed Sharia law — a set of beliefs at the core of Islam — hold notions “ultimately incompatible with the Constitution of this nation.”Jim Jacobson, the president of Christian Freedom International, which advocates for persecuted Christians, applauded the executive order and said, “The Trump administration has given hope to persecuted Christians that their cases will finally be considered.”Among the claims Mr. Trump made at his campaign rallies was that the Obama administration had denied refugee status to Christians, and had given preference to Muslims.“How unfair is that? How bad is that?” he told supporters at a rally in St. Clairsville, Ohio, interlaced with boasts about his “tremendous evangelical support.”The contention was consistent with the conspiracy theories held by some conservative Christians that Mr. Obama was secretly a Muslim, and that he was turning a blind eye to the suffering of Christians while using the reins of government to increase the Muslim population of the United States.But the claim is simply untrue. In 2016, the United States admitted almost as many Christian refugees (37,521) as Muslim refugees (38,901), according to the Pew Research Center.While only about one percent of the refugees from Syria resettled in the United States last year were Christian, the population of that country is 93 percent Muslim and only 5 percent Christian, according to Pew.And leaders of several refugee resettlement organizations said during interviews that it took 18 months to three years for most refugees to go through the vetting process to get into the United States.Many Syrian Christians got into the pipeline more recently.“We have no evidence that would support a belief that the Obama administration was discriminating against Christian populations,” said the Rev. Scott Arbeiter, the president of World Relief, the humanitarian arm of National Association of Evangelicals.His organization has resettled thousands of Muslim refugees, with the help of a network of 1,200 evangelical churches.Mr. Arbeiter said that World Relief is opposed to “any measure that would discriminate against the most vulnerable people in the world based on ethnicity, country of origin, religion, gender or gender identity. Our commitment is to serve vulnerable people without regard to those factors, or any others.”He said that World Relief had already gathered 12,000 signatures from evangelical Christians for a petition opposing Mr. Trump’s executive order.“We’re going to call out to our network, the 1,200 churches that are actively involved,” he said, “and ask them to use their voices to change the narrative, to challenge the facts that drive the fear so high that people would accept this executive order.”
With one dramatic no, a major artist has just escalated the culture world’s war against Donald J. Trump.For more than 20 years, the artist Christo has worked tirelessly and spent $15 million of his own money to create a vast public artwork in Colorado that would draw thousands of tourists and rival the ambition of “The Gates,” the saffron transformation of Central Park that made him and Jeanne-Claude, his collaborator and wife, two of the most talked-about artists of their generation.But Christo said this week that he had decided to walk away from the Colorado project — a silvery canopy suspended temporarily over 42 miles of the Arkansas River — because the terrain, federally owned, has a new landlord he refuses to have anything to do with: President Trump.His decision is by far the most visible — and costly — protest of the new administration from within the art world, whose dependence on ultra-wealthy and sometimes politically conservative collectors has tended to inhibit galleries, museums and artists from the kind of full-throated public disavowal of Mr. Trump expressed by some other segments of the creative world. Last week, the artist Richard Prince fired an opening salvo, returning a $36,000 payment for an artwork depicting Ivanka Trump, the president’s daughter, owned by her family.The Christo project, titled “Over the River,” conceived with his wife, who died in 2009, has been fiercely opposed in state and federal court by a group of Coloradans who contend that it will endanger wildlife and cause other problems in Bighorn Sheep Canyon. Almost six miles of fabric panels were to be erected over the river for two weeks, at a cost that could have exceeded $50 million. Christo, who sells artwork depicting his proposed projects to pay for them completely on his own, has prevailed in every court battle and is awaiting a decision by a federal appeals court that would represent a final stand by opponents.But in an interview on Tuesday, he said that even if he won the case, he would no longer go forward with the work.“I came from a Communist country,” said Christo, 81, who was born Christo Vladimirov Javacheff in Bulgaria and moved to New York with Jeanne-Claude in 1964, becoming an American citizen in 1973. “I use my own money and my own work and my own plans because I like to be totally free. And here now, the federal government is our landlord. They own the land. I can’t do a project that benefits this landlord.”Asked to elaborate on his views of the new president, he said only, “The decision speaks for itself.” He added, “My decision process was that, like many others, I never believed that Trump would be elected.”The establishment art world is slowly beginning to become more vocal about Mr. Trump, invoking the power of past protest movements, like the Art Workers Coalition, whose Moratorium of Art to End the War in Vietnam pressured museums to close for a day in October 1969, and led the next year to an Art Strike Against Racism, War and Oppression, which drew picketers to the Metropolitan Museum of Art because it declined to shut its doors.In late November, more than 150 prominent artists, curators and gallery workers picketed in front of the Puck Building in Downtown Manhattan, owned by the family of Jared Kushner, Ivanka Trump’s husband and now a senior adviser to President Trump. Under the banner of a continuing social-media and protest movement called Dear Ivanka, critics of the President have directed almost daily condemnations of his actions and policies to his daughter, a prominent art collector. And on Inauguration Day, dozens of galleries — and a few public art institutions — closed in cities across the country as a part of a movement, J20, that plans to broaden protest activities in the coming months to address issues like racism, immigration and gentrification.Aesthetic refusal as a form of protest does not have universal support in the art world. Some see it as ineffective, a defeatist position that denies the power of expression itself to effect change.“I would argue that this project, on a river that traverses both red and blue states, could draw attention to the importance of federal land management and stewardship of the environment,” said Tom Eccles, the executive director of the Center for Curatorial Studies at Bard College and former director of the Public Art Fund in New York. “If anything, Christo’s projects promote a sense of collective wonder, something we need more than ever right now.”Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for the White House, said it had no comment.Christo, whose work usually involves monumental wrapping or draping, a kind of beautifying abstraction of architecture or landscape, is known not only for “The Gates,” but also for highly visible projects like “Wrapped Reichstag,” in Berlin, realized in 1995 after more than 20 years of planning and proposals. Last year, “The Floating Piers,” a yellow-orange walkway of fabric atop 220,000 interlocking polyethylene cubes on Lake Iseo in the Lombardy region of Italy, drew 1.2 million visitors.The Colorado project would have been the largest work Christo had ever attempted in America. In interviews, he spoke about how the idea came about in 1985, during a project in which he and Jeanne-Claude had wrapped the Pont Neuf in Paris. “We looked up at the fabric, and it was so beautiful, silvery and shimmering in the reflected light of the river, and we smiled at each other,” he said.The two inspected dozens of rivers and selected a length of the Arkansas, partly because it was a popular rafting spot, and the canopied fabric, stretched over steel wire cables anchored on the banks, would be best seen from beneath, on the water itself. The project, expected to take more than two years to construct, was to remain in place for two weeks, during an August, before, like all of Christo and Jeanne-Claude’s projects, being dismantled.In court, Christo argued that he had taken every step possible to prevent long-term damage to the river, land around it, or animal or plant life. The group that has opposed him, Rags Over the Arkansas River, or ROAR, has argued that the federal Bureau of Land Management, in approving the project, failed to take sufficiently into account its possible threat to bighorn sheep and the impact on traffic on U.S. Highway 50 through the canyon. On Wednesday, Joan Anzelmo, a spokeswoman for ROAR, said it was “ecstatic” to hear of the decision, no matter what the artist’s reasons. “This means local people will now be protected,” she said, “as well as wildlife, birds and fish.”In the interview on Tuesday, Christo said the Job-like patience required in seeking approval for his projects has always been an element of the spirit of the projects themselves. He needs to feel passion about them, in the same way that a more traditional painter or sculptor does, he added. But in this case, “that pleasure is gone” because of the nature of the new administration.“I am not excited about the project anymore,” he said. “Why should I spend more money on something I don’t want to do?”
Christopher Gray’s first job title after graduation was C.E.O. As the son of a single mother who lost her job during the recession, he knew he would need considerable financial aid to pay for college. After seven strenuous months of searching for scholarships, dodging scams and writing (and recycling) essays on leadership and community service, he raised $1.3 million. Then, as a student at Drexel University in Philadelphia, he turned his experience into a social enterprise — an app called Scholly that matches students with a personalized list of scholarships. Scholly soared to No. 1 in the iOS App Store after Mr. Gray pitched it on “Shark Tank.” In three years, Scholly has been downloaded over a million times and has helped students raise more than $50 million.Mr. Gray — now 25, one of Forbes’s “30 Under 30” and Oprah Winfrey’s “SuperSoul 100” — shares advice for students hoping to launch a sustainable social venture.Being from Birmingham, Ala., you tend to want to get out of Birmingham, Ala. I wanted to be a tech entrepreneur. I wanted to escape and get to a place where I could do that. My brother and sister were 4 and 2 at the time I was going to college. I wanted to break the cycle and create a better life for them. They now have someone they can see who’s different than what’s around them. All the success is just surreal, and it’s emotional. When I started Scholly, my goal wasn’t to make a billion dollars. It was to help a lot of people.Realizing there’s a big market, that’s when I knew this could be a business. At Drexel I was around a lot of kids who had different backgrounds. I saw, it’s not just me. Both parents could make 100K, but they have three kids in college. They need scholarships, too.To get on “Shark Tank,” my advice would be to find a producer and have a conversation. A producer spoke to one of my friends at Drexel and I ran up to ask for an introduction. I pitched my story and ended up calling him, like, six times. Be persistent. The producer I talked to had to find scholarships of his own, so he understood. Find people who identify with what you’re doing.You have a lot of people around you who want to get experience and will work for free. And a lot of your friends have connections. One of my investors is Springleaf and that came from a guy I partied with. His dad is the C.E.O.Your university wants your success as much as you do. I was a student when I appeared on “Shark Tank.” That’s a big thing for the school. Drexel helped promote us. Your university has tons of networking events and marketing opportunities. Students don’t have money, so we have to figure out the most inexpensive way to get the word out there.There are so many funding opportunities specifically for students. I think students miss that sometimes. I won $75,000 from Cupid’s Cup, an entrepreneurship competition for students and recent graduates. At Drexel, I won $32,000 in an incubator competition.When you’re a student, you study hard for a test and you make an A. You have a degree of control over your success. When you’re an entrepreneur, you can work eight months on a deal and it may not go through. Markets change. Investors change their minds. When that happens, be resilient. Students may not be used to dealing with that yet. If a little boy from Birmingham, Ala., can go to college, pay for it and build a successful company before the age of 25, so can you.
Chuck Stewart, who could not master the piano but succeeded indelibly with a camera, becoming a fixture in the jazz world with his photographs of John Coltrane, Dizzy Gillespie, Dinah Washington and many others, died on Jan. 20 in Teaneck, N.J. He was 89.His death was confirmed by Kim Stewart, his daughter-in-law.Mr. Stewart often framed his subjects in black, as if to prevent the eye from being distracted by anything but the singer or musician.“There was a certain warmth and intimacy to his work,” the jazz historian Dan Morgenstern said in an interview. “Photographers weren’t always welcome in recording studios, but he was.“Producers and engineers accepted him,” Mr. Morgenstern continued. “He was not the least bit intrusive. He would never snap a shutter in the middle of a take. He was the extreme opposite of the paparazzi.”Mr. Stewart created an archive of some 800,000 negatives, and by his count his photographs appeared on the covers of at least 2,000 albums.In 1964, he joined Coltrane as he recorded the album “A Love Supreme” at the Van Gelder Studio in Englewood Cliffs, N.J. With a Rolleiflex camera, he photographed the rehearsal as Coltrane, with his saxophone, led the pianist McCoy Tyner, the drummer Elvin Jones and the bassist Jimmy Garrison through his four-movement composition.Seventy-two pictures from that session went undeveloped for 50 years. Looking at a sheet of the rediscovered work with a reporter for Smithsonian magazine in 2014, Mr. Stewart singled out one that showed Coltrane sitting at a piano, lost in thought.“I was looking for a decisive moment,” he said.He was seeking not only decisive moments in studios and nightclubs, but also images that were undeniably his.“If you say Count Basie, a thousand photographers might have photographed him,” Mr. Stewart said in an interview with the Newark radio station WBGO in 2016. “I want my pictures to say, ‘These pictures are by Chuck Stewart.’”He did not find it easy, perhaps out of modesty, to describe how he had created his most distinctive work. But Carol Friedman, a friend and fellow photographer, said he had distinguished himself through his relationships with the artists.“If you look through Chuck’s images,” Ms. Friedman said in an interview, “what is immediately apparent is that his subjects have let him into their inner sanctum. They like him and they trust him. Whether he’s documenting them at a recording session or capturing them in the privacy of his own studio, he knew how to defer to the moment in time that unfolded before him.”Charles Hugh Stewart was born on May 21, 1927, in Henrietta, Tex., to Hugh Paris Stewart, a chef, and the former Anne Harris, a domestic worker. The family later moved to Tucson, Ariz.He used a Box Brownie Six-16 camera, which he had received for his 13th birthday, to take pictures of Marian Anderson, the African-American contralto, when she visited his school. A year earlier she had sung at the Lincoln Memorial after being denied use of Constitution Hall by the Daughters of the American Revolution, which owned the hall.“When I got the pictures back from the drugstore, everybody wanted some,” Mr. Stewart told WBGO. “I made $2. That was during the Depression. I got a quarter-a-week allowance. So $2 was a lot of money.”He took piano lessons for eight years, at his mother’s insistence, but the only thing he could successfully play, he said, was Bach’s Minuet in G.Mr. Stewart graduated from Ohio University in 1949 and became an assistant to his fellow student, Herman Leonard, at his studio in Manhattan. Mr. Leonard, who would become known for his haunting, noirish images of musicians, introduced him to the jazz clubs in Harlem and on 52nd Street that would become his artistic stamping ground. Mr. Leonard died in 2010.Drafted into the Army, Mr. Stewart found work as a military photographer. He was in the Nevada desert in 1952 to shoot atomic bomb tests and documented the effect of the tests on tanks positioned in the desert.“I can’t prove that,” he told WBGO, “because all the pictures belong to the government.”He returned to work for Mr. Leonard after his discharge and took over the studio in 1956 when Mr. Leonard went overseas to photograph Marlon Brando, who was shooting “The Teahouse of the August Moon” in Japan, and later when Mr. Leonard moved to Paris.Mr. Stewart’s specialty was jazz, but he also worked in other genres, photographing musical stars like Frank Sinatra, the Beatles, James Brown, Janis Joplin, Bo Diddley, Judy Garland, Led Zeppelin and Tito Puente for album covers and back covers, as well as for magazines and books. He shot sports stars, fashion models, actors, comedians and quiet street scenes. He also published a book of nudes, “Nus de Harlem,” in 1961.He is survived by his daughter, Marsha Stewart; two sons, David and Christopher; seven grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter. His wife, Mae Bailey, a social worker, died in 1986.Mr. Stewart’s decades of photographing jazz stars brought him a wealth of stories, like the one he told WBGO about photographing Miles Davis at a show in Italy with a band that included the saxophonist James Moody.“Miles used to call me James Moody,” he said, because the two looked somewhat alike, at least to Mr. Davis. When the show ended, he and Mr. Moody went to Mr. Davis’s dressing room. “O.K., Miles can you tell us apart?” Mr. Stewart said he asked.“I can always tell you all apart,” Mr. Stewart recalled Mr. Davis as saying, imitating his raspy voice. “You’re the James Moody with the camera and you’re the James Moody with the horn.”
That was one of the final entries of a blog diary by Mark Baumer, a Rhode Island man who was walking barefoot across the United States to call attention to climate change.It was written on Day 90 of his trek, but his stream of photographs and anecdotes stopped on Jan. 21, Day 100. At 1:15 p.m. on that day, Mr. Baumer, 33, was walking on the shoulder of U.S. 90 in northern Florida when an S.U.V. left its lane and hit him, according to a Florida Highway Patrol report. He was pronounced dead at the site.The vast expanse of the United States has long been alluring to the men and women who set out on long-distance hikes from coast to coast. Many have added to the tradition of travel literature, describing in their diaries the bouts of loneliness and moments of beauty, chronicling sleeping rough and under the stars, and writing of strangers who became friends.Mark Phillips was a graphic designer in New York City when he set off from Staten Island in March 2009, ending 4,100 miles later in Los Angeles.“It was a way to drop out but have a set goal from beginning to end, but with an unpredictable journey in the middle,” he said in a telephone interview.But in the past few years, a few people who aimed to make the trip — whether for activism, adventure or escape — have died trying.For Joe Bell, the motivation was heartbreak. In 2013, Mr. Bell, 48, set off to walk from Oregon to New York City, where his gay teenage son, Jadin, who committed suicide after being bullied, had dreamed of working.After six months of walking, Mr. Bell was fatally struck on a road in Colorado by a tractor-trailer whose driver had apparently fallen asleep.In 2012, Andrew Moore, 20, was killed while walking on the median of a highway in Indiana, partway into his trek from Washington to San Francisco in support of a group that opposed abortion, The Mercury News in San Jose, Calif., reported.In 2010, Roger Grooters, 66, set out by bicycle from California to raise money for victims of the BP oil spill, and was just days away from completing his 3,200-mile trip when he was hit and killed by a pickup truck near Crystal Lake, Fla., The Pensacola News Journal reported.For Mr. Baumer, he had set up a crowdfunding campaign to draw attention to environmental problems and to benefit the FANG Collective, a grass-roots group that has opposed fracking. It has since raised more than $20,000. He grew up in Maine but lived in Rhode Island, where he worked at Brown University’s library as a website specialist and was a student there, his website says.In 2010, he embarked on his first walk across the country, writing on his website about the animals that followed him, the people who fed him and the travails of like-minded adventurers he met along the way, like the two bikers trying to get to Miami from Los Angeles for cancer research but who were halted in their tracks when a truck hit one of them.In October 2016, Mr. Baumer set out on his latest cross-country hike, with financial help from a poetry fellowship he had been given from the Rhode Island State Council on the Arts.On Oct. 13, he published a video on his YouTube page as he set out on his journey with a barefoot run from Providence to Coventry.His diary took followers through Connecticut, the Bronx, Times Square and Pennsylvania. People offered him shoes, or a lift. In one encounter in Pennsylvania, he was asked if he was “one of those mountain people.”He was on the road during the presidential election, and Mr. Baumer’s messages took on a political hue. “Since I began crossing America barefoot, I’ve seen more Trump signs than Hillary signs,” he wrote, referring to Donald J. Trump and Hillary Clinton.“I thought maybe I was walking through politically fringe areas or outlier territories, but last night as I sat scrolling through the news of Trump’s election on my phone, I had the weird feeling of being ignorant of how this was happening but also truly comprehending America for the first time.”In December, he took a break from his walk down Interstate 70 and had an interview with Vice News, saying that he expected to finish his trek in March and that the best place to walk was along the white line of a road because it was smooth.“I’m constantly fighting for my space in the road,” he said. “A lot of [drivers] are like, ‘How dare you?!’”On his 98th day, in Florida, he encountered bicycle riders who were also on a cross-country trip. They told him, he said, “We’ve met some of the worst people ever on this trip, but the landscapes are beautiful.”On the 100th day, Mr. Baumer walked from Defuniak Springs to Mossy Head. He took a photograph of himself standing with his toes near the spray-painted word “killed” on the road, with an arrow pointing ahead.The image captured a gas line connection on a grassy lawn, and it was the last one on his blog. He sat on a bench in the rain and spoke to his father. Among the thoughts he wrote: “I spent most of the morning looking at my phone and wondering if any of the thoughts inside of it would survive.”Lt. Eddie W. Elmore of the Florida Highway Patrol said that Mr. Baumer’s death was still under investigation. The police report said only that the driver, a 51-year-old woman from Florida who had a child in the car, had “failed to maintain her lane” and entered the shoulder, striking Mr. Baumer.Mr. Baumer’s father, Jim, said in a telephone interview on Tuesday that the family was planning to set a date for a “celebration of his life” in Providence, where his son had “touched so many people,” from fellow students at Brown University, from which he graduated in 2011, to people at the farmers’ market.“We have received such an outpouring of love at a very dark and difficult period of time,” he said.Ada Smailbegovic, his girlfriend, was on a trip to Canada when she last heard from him in a brief text message.In a telephone interview on Tuesday, she said: “He wanted to have a real confrontation with the elements of the world with his body. He was moving between those two spaces.”
DAKAR, Senegal — The clinic, tucked discreetly inside the student health center on the University of Dakar campus, prescribes birth control pills, hands out condoms and answers questions about sex that young women are nervous about asking in this conservative Muslim country.The clinic performs no abortions, nor does it discuss the procedure or give advice on where to get one. Senegal, by and large, outlaws abortion. But for other health services like getting contraceptives, said Anne Lancelot, the Sahel director at the organization that runs the clinic, “there is a very high demand.”Now, under a Reagan-era policy revived by President Trump, the clinic may no longer be able to count on aid money from the United States Agency for International Development, part of a ban on providing abortion counseling overseas that could curtail a broad range of health services, including those that go well beyond abortion.Known as the Mexico City policy — and by its critics as the global gag rule — the abortion policy prohibits organizations abroad from using American aid to talk about abortion as a method of family planning. Anti-abortion groups like the Family Research Council have welcomed Mr. Trump’s decision, saying it is consistent with “his campaign promise that he will protect taxpayers from having to pay for abortions.”Direct American aid to carry out abortions was already prohibited, but the rule Mr. Trump revived goes further. It requires not only hospitals or clinics to refrain from providing advice or information on the benefits and availability of abortion. It also requires any international organizations supporting those clinics to stop promoting abortion or advocating abortion rights anywhere in the world — even if they use non-American money to do so.Experts say the rule has cut American aid to groups offering a wide range of services, not just abortion, during previous Republican administrations that have adopted the policy.But this time, they say, the impact could be much bigger.The wording in the Trump order extends the restrictions to all American global health aid, an $8.5 billion pot of money, according to an analysis by the Kaiser Family Foundation, a research organization. More than half of that money goes to programs for H.I.V. and AIDS, including services for women of reproductive age, the analysis found. An additional 9 percent goes to maternal and child health care, which is partly aimed at promoting safe pregnancies.By contrast, the last time the rule was in place, under President George W. Bush, it applied only to family planning money, an amount that is currently around $520 million, the analysis found.As health providers braced for cuts from Washington, the Netherlands lost no time in casting itself as a defender of reproductive rights. Its Foreign Ministry said Wednesday that it would start an international fund “to make up as much as possible for this financial blow.” It gave no specifics.A spokesman for U.S.A.I.D. said the agency was still reviewing Mr. Trump’s presidential order to figure out how it would be enacted. But the language suggesting that it would be extended to all global health aid quickly sent a chill through the network of health providers that rely on American assistance to deliver a wide range of services in countries with fragile health care systems.In Swaziland, which has one of the world’s highest H.I.V. infection rates, one private health care provider said its staff members provide abortion information to H.I.V.-infected women when necessary. Swaziland allows abortion only in cases of rape and incest, but patients can be referred to neighboring South Africa, where abortion is legal.“Our organization could definitely be affected, including our H.I.V. services, and you can imagine how detrimental that could be for a small country like Swaziland that’s been heavily affected by H.I.V.,” said Zelda Nhlabatsi, the executive director of the Family Life Association of Swaziland, which says it receives a quarter of its funding from the American government.In Lesotho, a landlocked nation surrounded by South Africa, Lerotholi Pheko, the executive director of the Lesotho Planned Parenthood Association, said he feared a hit to his operating budget even though his clinic does not provide abortion counseling.The reason: His clinic receives most of its funding from the International Planned Parenthood Federation, which has said that it will lose $100 million in American funding over the next four years under Mr. Trump’s order.“If we are not able to increase the income we get locally,” Mr. Pheko said, “it would mean that we would have to downsize.”Here in Senegal, the small waiting room at the clinic on the busy University of Dakar campus was crammed with young women this week. Some cradled smartphones and tablets with headphone cords dangling from their ears.Students in their early 20s arrived with questions and confusion about options for pregnancy prevention in a nation where talking about contraception is still largely taboo. A box of condoms was on a shelf, and students can be tested for sexually transmitted diseases.“We are your brothers and sisters who listen without judging,” read a banner at the center.Ms. Lancelot said the clinic does not provide abortion services or counseling. But the organization that runs it, Marie Stopes International, based in London, provides abortions and abortion counseling in other countries where it is legal, though not with money from the United States.Marjorie Newman-Williams, director of operations for Marie Stopes International, which received $30 million in American funding 2016, said her group could not accept the Trump administration’s restrictions and would seek aid elsewhere.“There will be a huge void in service delivery, and unless we can make up that money really fast, the funding won’t be there,” Ms. Newman-Williams said.President Trump’s decision drew support from opponents of abortion in the United States. Jim DeMint, the president of the Heritage Foundation, issued his congratulations to Mr. Trump on Twitter “for reinstating Reagan’s #MexicoCityPolicy, preventing our tax dollars from funding abortion overseas.”Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, echoed the sentiment, writing on Twitter, “Not one dime of taxpayer money should pay for abortion.”The Mexico City policy has been in effect under every Republican administration since President Ronald Reagan announced it in 1984. And it has been revoked by every Democratic administration.The international groups affected by the prohibition usually provide a range of women’s health services, including pregnancy tests, H.I.V. tests and screenings for sexually transmitted diseases. To continue to receive American aid, the groups would have to certify that they do not offer abortion counseling, refer patients to abortion services or advocate legal abortions in the countries where they work. The policy spells out some exceptions, including cases of rape and treating women who have had botched abortions.In Bogotá, Colombia, Marta Royo, who leads an organization called Profamilia, said she found the restrictions unacceptable.Colombia legalized abortion in 2006, so to be barred from talking about it with patients, Ms. Royo said, would be “going against the country rules and the rights of the country that we have fought for.”“It would be such a contradiction,” she said.Her group, which is part of the International Planned Parenthood Federation, does not use American funding for abortion services, she said, only for family planning.Research suggests that the policy has had a counterintuitive impact in the past. In countries that relied heavily on funding from the United States for reproductive health services, abortion rates rose when the Reagan-era policy was in place.Researchers cite a possible reason: The aid spigot dries up for the organizations that provide contraceptive services to prevent unwanted pregnancies.Avoiding such unintended pregnancies is what brought many of the young college students to the health clinic in Dakar. One 24-year-old student, Absa, who withheld her last name because her parents did not know she was sexually active, said she came to the clinic to ask about birth control after hearing a debate about contraception on television.Another, Raicha, who was also worried about being condemned by her parents, came to the clinic after her boyfriend refused to use a condom. She worried she would get pregnant, so the couple agreed to look into using other contraceptives.“I don’t want to get pregnant,” said Raicha, 22. “I want to finish my studies and be free to work.”
On a late-autumn Sunday, a bus pulled out of El Paso at 3 a.m. carrying 52 sleepy students and parents from western Texas and New Mexico. A few had already driven several hours to get to El Paso. The bus arrived at Texas A&M 12 hours later, in time for a walking tour and dinner. After “Aggieland” information sessions, including a student panel and classroom visits, a stop at the Bonfire Memorial and an all-night drive, they arrived back in El Paso at 8 a.m. Tuesday.“People don’t realize that Texas is a huge state,” said Scott McDonald, director of admissions at Texas A&M who came up with the idea of bus trips upon realizing that students from remote areas would not visit on their own. “Sometimes colleges say, ‘We don’t get many of those students; it’s not worth our time.’ ” He disagrees. Rural students bring “a unique perspective” to campus, he said. “In terms of diversity, geography is just as important as racial and ethnic.”Mr. McDonald proved prescient. Given election results that turned up the volume on the concerns of rural Americans, who voted their discontent over lost jobs and economic disparities, higher education leaders are now talking about how to reach the hard-to-get-to.“All of a sudden, rural is on everyone’s mind,” said Kai A. Schafft, director of the Center on Rural Education and Communities at Penn State, adding that November’s vote amplified the plight of people who had heretofore been “pretty systematically ignored, dismissed or passed over.” That’s partly because, while the federal government labels 72 percent of the nation’s land area “rural,” it is home to only 14 percent of the population, and rural schools educate just 18 percent of the nation’s public school students. Locales designated as rural have higher poverty rates and lower education levels than those labeled urban, suburban or town.To college administrators, rural students, many of them the first in their families to attend college, have become the new underrepresented minority. In their aim to shape leaders and provide access to the disadvantaged, higher education experts have been recognizing that these students bring valuable experiences and viewpoints to campuses that don’t typically attract agriculture majors. Rural students, said Adam Sapp, admissions director at Pomona College, have “a different understanding of complicated political and social issues,” offering “one more lens through which to see a problem.”Drexel University College of Medicine even includes rural students among those served through its diversity office. Clemson University last fall began offering them special scholarships through its Emerging Scholars Program. And nonprofit organizations that once focused on urban dwellers are now sending counselors into remote high schools to guide them in the application process.These students face specific challenges. They attend schools so small that some teachers double as guidance counselors and bus drivers. In western Texas, the sports teams of Alpine High School can travel five hours each way to face opponents. In one removed Kentucky town, Irvine, students gather in a McDonald’s parking lot for internet access, when it’s working. Rural schools also often have less access to Advanced Placement courses.There’s an achievement paradox here, too: While students in rural high schools graduate at rates second only to suburban students (80 percent, compared with 81 percent), and perform at or above other students on the National Assessment for Educational Progress, they enroll in four-year degree programs and pursue advanced degrees at lower rates.Just 29 percent of 18- to 24-year-olds in rural areas are enrolled in college, compared with 47 percent of their urban peers. Research also shows that they “under-match,” attending less competitive colleges than their school performance suggests, often favoring community colleges.•The simple question — What is college for? — gets more complicated depending on where you ask it. Rural America has been slow to see the net value in higher education. For regions in pain, do university degrees help?Higher education is a fraught subject in rural communities. “It is not simply deciding to get a college degree,” Dr. Schafft said, “but deciding you will probably not be able to come back.”In regions suffering economically — in four years, Kentucky has lost 10,000 coal jobs paying $60,000 to $70,000 a year — residents are grappling with the loss of good unskilled jobs. “People who have grown up in our state, if they have grown up on a farm or a family connected to the coal mining industry, many of them believe erroneously that college may not be all that important,” said Robert L. King, president of the state’s Council on Postsecondary Education. An educated work force, he said, is needed to attract new industry.With that goal in mind, a Kentucky working group on rural access to higher education made recommendations in 2013 now being carried out. They include extending the internet to isolated areas and offering Advanced Placement and college courses in high schools so that students realize they are capable of doing college work — countering, Mr. King said, “the natural concern that you may not be able to be competitive with kids who have grown up in suburban or larger communities.”The belief that college is for other people, not country folk, is hard to break, said Sahar Mohammadzadeh, a high school junior and a leader of the Student Voice Team of the Prichard Committee for Academic Excellence, a Kentucky education advocacy group. Team members recently interviewed high school students around the state, including rural students who, she said, are “being pushed down career pathways” even when they express academic interests.“They are putting kids who want to be accountants into welding classes” instead of high-level math classes to ready them for college work, said Ms. Mohammadzadeh. “It is really powerful and heartbreaking to go around this state and see all this potential being thrown away.”But there is also ample indifference on the students’ part, and not just in Appalachia. Jeanne Minton, dean of students at Union City High School in Oklahoma, said that only half of her 25 seniors are considering higher education. “In the small area where we are from, there are not always a lot of high expectations,” she said. “We are not striving to be valedictorian or have a C average or higher. We are striving to get graduated.“Once they get out of high school, getting them to college is hard,” she said. Although she brings students to a college fair at a nearby community college, she said that “the last one we attended was worthless — my students walked around and they were ready to go.”For urban and suburban students with college aspirations practically part of their DNA, such lack of interest can be hard to fathom. Yet even though college graduates earn on average 70 percent more than nondegree holders, daily experience in economically depressed areas may not argue for it. When a degree doesn’t guarantee higher pay, welding might seem a more desirable skill. Students are also reluctant to pursue study for jobs they don’t see around them.Cameron Wright, a freshman at Yale, grew up in Fleming-Neon, Ky. (pop. 728), a onetime coal town with a median income of $20,917. There is little else than fast-food work for his generation, he said. “Our parents and older people remember it as a bustling town,” and going away to college may be perceived as a rejection of small-town life. “People leaving can be almost like a death in the family,” he said.The strengths and challenges of rural communities are little known outside of them, said Mr. Wright, and their concerns are often missing from the national debate. “Everyone is always talking about how policies affect urban people,” he said, and described a dining hall discussion about climate change with a friend from California. “He was talking about the need for people to use public transportation, and I was trying to say, ‘There are rural people who don’t have bus routes crisscrossing their towns.’ ”Christopher Bush, a social work major at Portland State University, also experienced a cultural divide on campus. He grew up raising cattle, and struggles with the “Portlandia” fervor for vegetarian, vegan and organic. When friends say, “I don’t want to eat that stuff” and “eat cleaner,” it challenges his values. (As a freshman, he recalls being baffled by his first brunch invitation. “I was like, ‘I don’t know what brunch is.’ ”)While Portland State is not one of the country’s land-grant universities, with an agriculture mission and major, it attracts its share of Oregon’s rural students “who want something radically different,” said Shannon Carr, director of admissions. With big agriculture buying up smaller farms, “everything is becoming more automated and competitive,” she said. “There is a sense that the more business acumen a family member can bring to the table, the better.” Still, there remain “proud families that have learned by doing” without college degrees.•The message that rural students need more guidance is not lost on college access organizations. Over the last few years, College Possible, College Advising Corps and College Forward have expanded their free counseling into remote areas.In rural Texas, College Forward has added two high schools and is partnering with a state college and three community colleges. “College Forward used to be bachelor’s degree or bust,” said Austin Buchan, its executive director. With oil and gas prices down and energy companies shuttered — hurting manufacturing, steel and other industries — a two-year degree, he said, can help land or keep a job. And community college, he acknowledged, may be the best pathway for those helping to support families and for poor academic performers.Selective four-year colleges are looking for strong low- and middle-income students, but finding them is hard.In September, with the ability to identify such students from its database, the College Board sent customized guides on applying to college and for financial aid to 30,000 students in rural schools. “Better reaching rural students has been a top priority since I joined four years ago,” said David Coleman, president and chief executive of the College Board.A team is also in place exploring more tailored help, including virtual college advisers with local knowledge, a rural-specific college application guide, outreach to counselors in rural districts and more online help (100,000 rural students have signed up for personalized SAT practice on the Khan Academy site through the College Board). “Our higher ed partners are excited about that,” he said, adding that the election made clear “simmering needs that have been an issue for a long time.”Some high schools are so distant from population centers that college representatives never visit. Nor are they getting the fancy pamphlets. “There is definitely a drive and understanding that these kids are out there,” said James G. Nondorf, dean of admissions and financial aid at the University of Chicago and an architect of the Coalition for Access, Affordability and Success, a new collective of public and private campuses. “They are just harder to reach.”Last fall, coalition members divvied up a White House-generated list of underserved high schools to visit. Their representatives are supposed to pitch not just their own school but the whole group.Mr. Sapp, the admissions director at Pomona, was assigned to rural North Carolina. On Sept. 15 he flew to Charlotte and then drove three hours to visit two high schools. He had impromptu meetings with just two students and two counselors, who introduced him to some local educators. “I had to explain where Pomona was” — that’s California — “and what Pomona was all about.”As a one-time rural student himself, from Danville, Ohio (pop. 1,100), Mr. Sapp understood the value of his effort. Rural students “are not kids who will automatically fall in front of us,” he said. “We have to do the work.”
MANILA — Communist rebels engaged in peace talks with the Philippine government said on Wednesday that they were ending a six-month cease-fire, accusing the armed forces of “encroaching” on rebel territory and the government of reneging on a promise to release jailed comrades.The cease-fire has been credited with curbing the violence from 40 years of a rebellion that has left vast areas of the countryside mired in poverty and has killed at least 35,000 soldiers, rebels and civilians.In a statement, the New People’s Army, the armed wing of the Communist Party of the Philippines, said the cease-fire “shall effectively expire on 11:59 p.m. of February 10.”The rebels blamed what they called President Rodrigo Duterte’s failure to comply with the government’s “obligation” to release all political prisoners by October last year.They also said Manila had “treacherously taken advantage” of the cease-fire to encroach on territory the rebels considered part of their sphere of influence. They said that the Philippine armed forces had expanded into at least 500 villages in some 43 provinces and that the government had used the truce “as a license for its armed troops, police personnel, paramilitary units and death squads to engage in hostile actions, provocative movement and other offensive operations.”The announcement comes after a clash last month that resulted in the deaths of eight soldiers and one rebel.Jesus Dureza, a presidential adviser on the peace talks, blamed the rebels for the breakdown of the cease-fire, saying they had stepped up attacks around the country.Mr. Dureza credited the cease-fire with making “small but significant steps for sustainable peace in the land.”“We do not wish to unnecessarily squander those gains that even saw President Duterte exercising strong political will to move the peace process forward,” he added.The Communist Party of the Philippines began its rebellion in 1968. And while the National People’s Army has lost strength in recent years, it remains capable of carrying out hit-and-run attacks.The rebel force largely drew its base from Filipinos angered by the dictator Ferdinand Marcos’s harsh rule, and it was estimated at one point to have 25,000 fighters. But with the collapse of Communism worldwide and the overthrow of Marcos in the mid-1980s, its numbers have fallen, and it is believed to have only about 4,000 members today.Mr. Duterte has made overtures to the exiled founder of the Communist Party, Jose Maria Sison, who was once Mr. Duterte’s university professor.The two sides have been engaged in on-and-off talks, which broke down in 2001 when the rebels backed out after being named by the United States as a “foreign terrorist organization,” effectively making it difficult for them to get overseas funding. In the most recent round of talks last month, the government said it would ask Washington to remove Mr. Sison from the terrorist blacklist.In its statement Wednesday, the National People’s Army said that while it was ending the truce, it continued to support peace talks.“It is possible to negotiate while fighting until the substantive agreements are forged to address the roots of the armed conflict and lay the basis for a just and lasting peace,” it said.It added that its commanders had been ordered to carry out campaigns and attacks against government forces and Mr. Duterte’s “death squads.”
Even before he spoke, I knew. A woman I would meet years later described the sensation as “feeling it in the skin.” I felt the words he was about to say in my skin.In his “I can’t do this anymore,” I heard what he was really saying. Something flashed red before my eyes. I was shaking, holding the phone to one ear. Screaming, but unable to speak.I thought maybe the worst was over, but he went on to state the obvious — that I was black and not Jewish. He explained that he was not ready to handle the complexities of an interracial relationship in a country like this, as if it were the 1960s and we were Richard and Mildred Loving. Or as if I had fooled him by making a racial and religious switch midway through our relationship.My throat closed, my chest tightened, my eyes stung. I heard myself call him a bigot — the milder term — even though what I really wanted to call him was a racist.He said, “I’m sorry you feel that way.”We had been serious, tentatively exploring what our future might look like. I was in my 20s, he in his 30s. He didn’t date casually, he’d told me. At his age, he was always considering long-term potential.I hated myself for letting him off so easily. It just felt like too high a mountain to climb. As a black woman in America, I climbed that mountain every day. To have to climb it again because of him was too much.Instead, I spent the days after our breakup replaying his words in my head. I rehearsed for a retake of our conversation. In this imaginary conversation, I was brave and strong. I spoke firmly and clearly. I held a mirror up to his prejudice so he could not help but see himself for what he was and hear his words for what they were.My feelings were untidy, but I had no time to label. I tried to write, but everything was mush. I missed him but resisted the urge to call. I reminded myself that I was black and not Jewish.Over time, the details became fuzzy until he was just a blip on my dating screen, a story I told my friends. My black non-Jewishness ceased being my problem and became his alone.I started dating again. Before him, I had dated only women, so I picked up where I had left off but ardently avoided anything interracial. I wondered what made me think I could be with a man at all, let alone a white one. With hindsight, I saw all the signs that should have tipped me off — dropping my hand when he saw his friends, for example. And with the benevolence that comes from either forgiveness or amnesia, I let it go.When our paths crossed a year and a half later, the hardest edges were gone, leaving only the pulp substance of shared history. Coffee became lunch, lunch became dinner, dinner became sex.Something in me raised a hand to object, but I ignored it. I knew what I was doing, or thought I did. I wanted to prove something: that I was still desirable, that I didn’t care. It was just my body, I told myself. My black non-Jewish body.For him, I imagine the complexities of interracial casual sex in America required a different kind of logic, a different kind of bigotry.During an inspired spell, I found myself transferring our relationship to paper. What came out was unexpected, fresh. The pain seemed gone, our conversations now comical. I kneaded our story like bread, and it rose. Soon I felt ready to share it with someone, and I was aware I was going to send it to him even before I actually decided.He responded to the emailed draft immediately, and the affection in his greeting threw me.He said my draft was “good” and “human” and “filled with conflict,” as though critiquing another couple’s tale, but then admitted that he was embarrassed by the story.I again saw that flash of red from years before but tried my hand at objectivity. “Thank you for the feedback,” I began. “You raise some good points.” Yet something in me had been unleashed, and I knew there could be no backing away from the mountain this time.I emailed him again, and this time I did not hold anything back. Calling him out felt both frightening and liberating. I worried about reopening a wound I didn’t have the resilience to mend. I wondered if he would respond but focused on how good it felt to finally say everything I had hauled around for so long. It dawned on me then how much I had edited myself during our relationship, afraid of scaring him off.Two months later, his name appeared in my inbox. I hesitated, wary but curious.His response was long yet concise, deliberate and measured. I read it twice, unsure what I was searching for. Maybe I had simply hoped it would end with my letter, with me getting the last word.Months passed, and I saw him in every season. Springtime, crossing the street. Summer, walking through the park. Fall, in the frozen-food aisle at an organic food store. He looked unkempt and seemed startled to see me, so he filled the silence with nervous chatter: He had a son now. Today was his bris.Stumped for a reply, I shared that my car loan was paid off.Over coffee with a friend, his name came up. “Whatever happened with you two, by the way?” she asked, and suddenly words I didn’t recognize as my own tumbled out. I told her about the heaviness I couldn’t quite place. I missed him sometimes, yes. Still felt cheated, yes. Owed, yes. But there was something else I struggled to articulate as she watched me — patient, open, listening.Parsing emotions that had existed only as masses in my chest was like trying to suppress a gag reflex with a mouth crammed full of marbles. All this time, it had been easier to be angry with him, to blame him. His wrongs were obvious and easy to label. The vernacular for him and those like him already existed; it was nothing new. But in the end, it was my own feelings of shame that were hardest to unload.The disingenuousness was not, in fact, his; all along, he had been only exactly who and what he was. I was the one who shrank myself. I had tried to whitewash my blackness, polished myself to a colorless sheen, held myself up for his inspection, searching for the best light in which to stand to make him forget. I had so desperately wanted him to find me worthy. To have failed in that at the expense of my integrity shamed me more than any rejection of my black non-Jewishness ever could.My friend listened as if she were hearing a secret she had long suspected but never mentioned, and I loved her for it. She rubbed my shoulder as I cried, asked the right questions, listened to all of my answers. When she told me, “You didn’t do anything but love, honey,” her words filled the void in me.Apparently, as every self-help book purports, love really does start with the self. And over the next two years, I went back to basics. It was not smooth, and there were countless false starts, but with each one I learned new lessons while keeping that mantra front and center. I felt like a toddler learning to walk: First sit, then crawl, then stand, and fall. Stand and fall. It felt simultaneously like the hardest and easiest thing, and gratitude started to replace the heaviness that had weighed me down.When I met a woman who seemed the answer to everything I was ready for, I was eager to test out my self-love sea legs, and all seemed rosy for a time. Soon, however, I realized she was less an answer than a test, and the fact that I could see that so clearly seemed like further proof of my growth.We parted as friends, and I continued learning, standing, falling.Waiting at a crosswalk one spring, I saw him in a car stopped at a light. He was in the passenger seat, a woman at the wheel. The years had not changed him, and I recognized him before he saw me. When our eyes met, they held, and I heard in his gaze all the words I had wished for in our ending: I’m sorry. You were right. I wish. If only.I didn’t know what my own eyes said to him, but as the two restless children in the back bobbed up and down in their car seats, their mother oblivious to her distracted husband, I felt myself soften.The children waved, and I smiled back. Somewhere on my shoulders, the last of something rose and flew gently away.
When the Boy Scouts of America announced Monday that transgender boys would be welcome to camp, hike and earn merit badges alongside their peers, the move brought praise from critics of the organization who for years have called for more inclusive membership rules.But the decision, which came with little warning and reversed a more than century-old stance of determining gender based on birth certificates, further alienated many religious conservatives who were longtime advocates of the program.“Now we see once again that the Boy Scouts really is committed to a gender-theory culture war that evangelical Christians and many other Americans just can’t accept,” said Russell Moore, the president of the Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission, the public policy arm of the Southern Baptist Convention.Mr. Moore, a former scout, said Southern Baptist churches and others had been dismayed by Boy Scout policies for several years, as the Scouts moved first to allow openly gay youth members, and then openly gay adult leaders. Though several Southern Baptist congregations have stopped sponsoring Scout troops, Mr. Moore said others had held out hope that the organization would return to a more conservative worldview.“I think, for some, this will be the final sign that it’s time to go,” Mr. Moore said.Whether the new rules would lead to an influx of transgender scouts seemed uncertain. Besides one highly publicized case of a transgender boy being excluded from a New Jersey Scouting unit, there had been limited attention on the issue before this week. Boy Scouts officials declined to be interviewed, and would not comment on how many youths the decision might affect.In a statement, a spokeswoman for the Boy Scouts said it was “no longer sufficient” to rely on a birth certificate to determine gender. “The B.S.A. is committed to identifying program options that will help us truly serve the whole family,” said the spokeswoman, Effie Delimarkos, adding that those efforts would remain “true to our core values, outlined in the Scout Oath and Law.”For many years, the Boy Scouts have found themselves facing conflicting forces on issues of sexuality and inclusion. The Scouts contended with a pattern of declining membership, canceled corporate donations and public criticism over the group’s restrictions on gay youths before easing those rules in 2013. And the move this week to allow transgender youths was hailed by some as a positive, overdue step toward equality.“No one should be denied the opportunity to participate in any Boy Scout troop because of their gender identity or expression,” Jonathan A. Greenblatt, the chief executive of the Anti-Defamation League, said in a statement.But many Scout units are sponsored by conservative religious denominations that have opposed the changes, saying the organization has betrayed its values by loosening membership rules.Tami Fitzgerald, the executive director of the North Carolina Values Coalition, said the transgender decision indicated that the Scouts “have diverged greatly from their founding principles.” Ms. Fitzgerald, who said her brother was an Eagle Scout, said the Values Coalition was now encouraging families to consider alternatives to the Boy Scouts.Such conservative alternatives already exist. After the decision to allow gay members, John Stemberger, a former scoutmaster, pulled his sons out of the Boy Scouts and helped start a new program called Trail Life USA. Mr. Stemberger said Trail Life, which he described as a “distinctly Christian scouting organization,” was active in all but a few states with nearly 30,000 members, a tiny fraction of the roughly 2.3 million youths enrolled in Boy Scout programs.Mr. Stemberger said he expected that the decision on transgender youths might prompt more families to enroll their sons in Trail Life. He said that the Boy Scouts’ transgender policy seemed inevitable given the change on gay membership, but that he was surprised by how quickly it came about.“They are basically doing what gay activists want them to do because they lack the courage to defend their own tradition and their own Scout Oath and their own Scout Law,” Mr. Stemberger said.Despite disenchantment from many on the right, the Boy Scouts have reported less pronounced membership declines in recent years. The Roman Catholic and Mormon churches, which collectively sponsor a large percentage of Scout units, have not left in overwhelming numbers, as some feared, and campouts, service projects and pinewood derbies have continued.Whether allowing transgender boys to join will lead to significant departures remains unclear. Representatives of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops and the Lutheran Church-Missouri Synod did not respond to requests for comment about the policy. The Mormon Church said in a statement that its leaders were studying the announcement.But in some places, reaction was pointed and critical. A statement from the Catholic Archdiocese of St. Louis referred to transgender boys as “girls struggling with gender dysphoria,” said Boy Scout policies were “becoming increasingly incompatible with our Catholic values” and expressed hope that the Scouts would “recognize their error.”
The idea of a broad tax on importers is suddenly at the center of the Washington policy debate, with the inevitable counting of potential winners and losers.Such a tax could hit retailers the hardest if it takes full effect, with their heavy reliance on products as varied as microwave ovens from China and T-shirts from Bangladesh. But few sectors of the American economy and few consumers would be unaffected.If such a tax were imposed on imports from around the world, automakers could face hefty tax bills not only for cars imported from Mexico and elsewhere but also for the many auto parts they buy from overseas for their assembly lines in the United States. Chemical companies, supplying practically every industry, could find themselves paying more for feedstocks. And energy companies could wind up paying more for imported oil.The Republican leadership of the House Ways and Means Committee has been working in recent months on such a plan, a border-adjusted tax, as part of an effort to cut corporate tax rates. On Thursday, the plan got caught up in a discussion of ways to make Mexico pay for a proposed border wall, before the White House stepped back from endorsing that course.If a border-adjusted tax is used to offset a reduction in corporate tax rates, American exporters and their employees would rank among the winners.Yet, even in its broader form, the tax plan could be politically tricky. If a tax covers oil imports, for example, it would end up falling most heavily on rural Americans, who voted heavily for President Trump but also tend to drive farther each year than residents of heavily Democratic large cities.The tax “would be a boon for producers but it would be a negative for consumers — it’s going to hit the pocketbooks of his supporters the hardest,” said Ed Hirs, a managing director of Hillhouse Resources, an oil and gas company based in Houston.Even those seemingly safe from import taxes, exporters like Boeing and American farmers, could also lose sales if other countries retaliated. Banks on Wall Street could lose overseas contracts to represent initial public offerings if foreign governments responded by steering their companies to European or Asian rivals.By international standards, the United States puts few taxes on consumption, while taxing producers more heavily. The House Republican proposal would start to shift that balance, and one likely effect would be somewhat higher prices at retailers including gas stations and Walmart.Many small manufacturers without overseas factories have long favored an overhaul of the United States tax code that would increase corporate taxes on importers. The money raised from such a tax increase, they have argued, could then be used to offset a reduction in the overall corporate tax rate of 35 percent.Powerful business groups like the American Chamber of Commerce have said little about such proposals, because of deep divisions in corporate America based on who would pay the import tax and who might benefit from a reduction in corporate taxes.But Mr. Trump and his spokesman, Sean Spicer, may have complicated the House Republicans’ efforts by raising the possibility of imposing such a tax on goods from Mexico first, with the money used to pay for a wall along the Mexican border to deter illegal immigration. The White House later said it was just one of the methods being considered.Linking the plan to Mexico left corporate groups mostly silent, leery of offending the president by criticizing him but also leery of offending Americans who dislike Mr. Trump’s denunciations of Mexico and Mexican immigrants.Industrial labor unions in the United States have been more open to increased taxes on imports from Mexico. After the November election, Dennis Williams, president of the United Automobile Workers, expressed support generally for the president’s advocacy of tariffs on Mexican imports.“I think his position on trade is right on,” Mr. Williams said.If a tax is imposed, the retailing industry, and particularly apparel retailers, could be among the hardest hit. Much of the clothing sold in the United States is made overseas, and retailers have little wiggle room to raise their prices to compensate for higher costs.And the timing could not be worse: Retailers, particularly apparel companies and department stores, have struggled more than other sectors of the economy to recover from the recession.Tighter budgets, Amazon and many new discount chains have conditioned shoppers never to pay full price. In recent years, that has created a discounting war that has decimated once-mighty retail titans like Macy’s and other department stores.Could those same stores start charging more because of the proposed plan to raise the costs on imports?Unthinkable.But David French, senior vice president of government relations at the National Retail Federation, said that retailers would have no choice but to raise prices.“I really hope everybody understands that what they’re really talking about is a 20 percent tax on the U.S. consumer,” he said on Thursday. “That’s like building the wall and having the U.S. consumer pay for it.”But even if a 20 percent tax on imports were imposed, its effect on retail prices would be far smaller in percentage terms. That is because the value of imports is essentially calculated based on their wholesale value, which may be a quarter or less of the retail price for items like apparel. So the extra tax would fall on only a small share of the total costs of most companies.Apparel companies could be among the most vulnerable if corporate taxes rise for importers of goods from all over the world, since many of the clothes sold in the United States come from China or Bangladesh. Budget-friendly retailers in particular run the risk of alienating customers by raising costs.But while most of the retail industry is alarmed at the thought of higher import taxes, some retailers could actually win if the Republican plan goes through. Stores that operate primarily in the United States and cater to less price-sensitive shoppers could actually see their profits increase, according to some estimates. That is because the imported goods they sell actually make up a small share of their overall costs, while they spend heavily on attractive stores, American staff wages and marketing promotions.The beauty retailer Ulta is one such company, according to Goldman Sachs, which predicted that net income could actually rise by 21 percent.Ulta sells thousands of cosmetics from brands like Chloe and Clinique, many of which depend on overseas factories, according to the company’s financial filings. But Ulta may benefit more from the part of the House Republican proposal that would reduce the 35 percent corporate tax rate.As for the higher import taxes, “they can actually pass along some of the price,” Simeon Siegel, a retailing analyst with the investment bank Nomura, said.By contrast, a tax on imports from Mexico could wreak havoc on finely balanced supply chains in the auto industry. More than two million Mexican-made vehicles were sold in the United States in 2015, according to the International Trade Administration, representing a little over a tenth of the American market. The products range from full-size pickup trucks made by General Motors and Fiat Chrysler, midsize sedans produced by Ford, and small cars assembled by foreign automakers such as Honda and Nissan.Some automakers are more vulnerable than others. The German automaker Volkswagen, for example, imports more than 30 percent of the vehicles it sells in the United States from Mexico. The figure is closer to 15 percent for the two largest American auto companies, G.M. and Ford.A 20 percent tariff would probably have to be passed on, at least in part, to consumers. That could add thousands of dollars to the sticker price of affected vehicles — and perhaps cause sharp declines in their sales.Mexico also exports about $50 billion in auto parts annually to the United States for use in American assembly plants. Tariffs on those parts would add significant costs to American-built vehicles that use them.Mr. Trump’s repeated criticisms of Mexican exports to the United States have prompted several automakers, including the big Detroit companies, to announce plans to increase investment and jobs in their American factories.Sergio Marchionne, chief executive of Fiat Chrysler, said Thursday that policies that force car companies to curtail or abandon Mexican production would have a major impact on the industry.“The question about repatriation of all of the manufacturing footprint into the United States has got monumental consequences to the industry over all,” Mr. Marchionne said in a conference call with analysts.
ST. LOUIS — A school district that includes students from Ferguson, Mo., will continue for now its longstanding method of electing board members at large, despite a lawsuit claiming that the process is racially biased.The lawsuit, filed by the American Civil Liberties Union in 2014 on behalf of the Missouri N.A.A.C.P., seeks what is known as a cumulative-voting process for the Ferguson-Florissant School District. Such a process would allow people to vote multiple times for an individual candidate, depending on how many seats were being contested.Judge Rodney W. Sippel, of Federal District Court in St. Louis, ruled in favor of the N.A.A.C.P. in August. But in December, he allowed the district to delay adopting cumulative voting while it appealed his ruling. A three-judge panel of the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals declined on Thursday to overturn that decision.Cindy Ormsby, a lawyer for the school district, said that, with the court case unresolved, the board election in April would rely on the at-large voting process.“This was absolutely the best thing to do, rather than seesaw back and forth between two election models,” Ms. Ormsby said.Tony Rothert, a lawyer with the A.C.L.U. of Missouri, said the appeals court ruling was disappointing but would “have no impact on the ultimate resolution of the case.”“The court’s decision that the election system violates the Voting Rights Act still stands,” Mr. Rothert said. “It is troubling that the school board is more interested in preserving an electoral system that the court found dilutes the votes of African-Americans than in giving black voters an equal opportunity to elect candidates of their choice, which underscores the importance of electing a responsive school board.”The suit was filed soon after the shooting death of Michael Brown, an unarmed, black 18-year-old, by a white police officer in Ferguson in August 2014. The suit claimed that the district’s practice of selecting board members at large had made it more difficult for black candidates to win election.The district serves about 11,200 students from 11 municipalities, including part of Ferguson. Though its population is about evenly split between whites and blacks, nearly 80 percent of the public school students are black; many white children attend private and parochial schools.In an at-large election, voters get as many votes as there are vacancies to fill. But a voter can cast no more than one vote for each candidate. In the cumulative process, voters get the same number of votes as vacancies, but can cast all of them for a single candidate if they choose.Drew Penrose, legal director for the nonprofit FairVote, said 58 jurisdictions around the country now use cumulative voting because of lawsuits alleging Voting Rights Act violations. He said minority representation has increased in those jurisdictions.When the suit was filed in Missouri, just one of the seven Ferguson-Florissant board members was black. Two more black members were added in later elections, and Ms. Ormsby said it was possible that African-Americans would hold four of the seven board seats after the vote in April.“In my mind that pretty much makes the N.A.A.C.P.’s lawsuit moot,” she said.
PARIS — At the end of the Jean Paul Gaultier couture show — after a stream of etched tuxedo suits, 1980s Crayola leathers and mega-shoulder furs with hibiscus prints; after the models had finally left the runway and the audience started packing up — a man with a guitar slung around his neck appeared and perched on a stool by the side of the stage. Oops. Guess it wasn’t over after all.Then up the curtain went again, to reveal … a barefoot girl standing on a swing in an angelic silken nightie with a long blond braid trailing down her back and lacy sleeves like wings.She swayed to and fro for awhile to the strumming, then hopped off the swing and twirled down the catwalk before being swept off her feet by a shirtless stud in denim overalls, deposited in a wheelbarrow and carted off with great fanfare, into the sunset. Or at least backstage.It was a vignette sweetly meant. But couture bills itself as “the dream.” And are women’s dreams these days really about being spirited into the future by a hunk-a-hunk of burning man flesh?That was mostly a rhetorical question.There’s a reason that Isabelle Huppert, just off her best actress Oscar nomination for playing a woman in “Elle” who, instead of falling to pieces after an attack, takes her vengeance into her own hands, attended the Armani Privé show not in the usual elaborate cocktail gown that celebrities favor for the front row, but rather a turquoise trouser suit and black mock turtleneck, and looked the cooler for it.When her fellow front-row celeb, Nicole Kidman, in a classic little black dress with statement jewels, knelt down to pay homage, you thought, “I know what you mean.”It was, on the other hand, more difficult to figure out what Mr. Armani meant with the tangerine dream on the runway, from orange croc jackets to orange sequined slithers to long jeweled orange vests (there was some black, too).To paraphrase Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada, it’s 2017.The issue of how relevant a historic discipline that is defined by making handmade clothes to order for the very few can be in a world roiled by social and political disruption was unavoidable this week — in part because the couture shows began just after the Women’s March on Washington, not to mention its sister marches all over the world, including Paris, and ended just before the March for Life. It seemed, at least to start, an unfortunate juxtaposition. It was hard not to think we were in the middle of a Marie Antoinette moment in the making.Especially when Giambattista Valli situated his show of high/low ball gowns, minidresses cut to the thigh in front and streaming trains of mousseline and silk faille behind, in the Archives Nationales. The historic venue, that is to say, where the young queen’s papers are kept (including the final letter she wrote before her beheading). The idea did not go over well with a French national trade union, which handed out leaflets in protest of the desecration-by-frivolity.Still, after it was all over, after we had finished the trek from one cultural monument to the other — from the Musée Rodin, Invalides, the Centre Pompidou, the Palais de Chaillot, the Cirque D’Hiver (in case, you know, anyone was in any doubt about whether the French consider this particular discipline part of their patrimony) — it was clear that behind the tulle and chiffon, the crystals and crepe, efforts were being made to bridge the gap between escapism and the contemporary.Couture is often treated as synonymous with the most extreme form of self-indulgence, in part because of designers’ own tendency to self-indulge with the decoration (more sequins! more encrustation!) and the show décor. But at its essence it is, or is when it succeeds, about empowering the individual.A point made crystal clear by John Galliano in a perfectly judged Maison Margiela show that was a graceful meditation on the connection between foundation and presentation. Silk trench coats were sliced away and reduced to checkerboards to give glimpses of the garments beneath; a tweed blouse over a bias satin skirt unspooled on one side. Faces, from the filters we use to transform ourselves on social media, were traced on sheer overcoats or cut into cascading gowns, or imprinted on tulle. In those eyes, you saw yourself.Elsewhere, the difference was in the details.At Christian Dior, the first woman to run the house, Maria Grazia Chiuri, performed a deceptive sleight of hand. In a tent in the gardens of the Musée Rodin, she constructed a verdant moss-covered maze around a magical tree dripping jewels and trinkets that recalled nothing so much as “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.” She populated it with Little Black Riding Hood tailleurs and an array of evermore romantic evening dresses clasped at the waist by sculptural belts and crowned at the head.Yet, fancy though they were, the clothes had a shrugged-on insouciance. Oh, this old ball gown? Paired with barely there kitten heels that kicked up the moss as the models strode along, they looked as comfortable as a sweatshirt. Ms. Chiuri said she had been fascinated by the concept of transformation (hence the masked ball theme, and the set), but the real transformation was in taking a formal garment and giving it a palpable ease, so the woman inside could just, well — get on with it.Likewise, at Valentino, Pierpaolo Piccioli accessorized his Grecian columns and palazzo pants and Aphrodite dresses with flat leather-strap sandals, the kind found at many an Italian resort, and loosed — or lost — the structure from his clothes. Instead of being armored, or preserved in amber, femininity was being unbound, shrouded in crepe pleats and veils of tulle.(Mr. Piccioli and Ms. Chiuri worked together as design partners for more than two decades, and this season marked each of their solo couture debuts, so, if they were thinking along the same lines, it’s understandable. The separation process is probably going to take a while.)The idea that flat shoes could represent progress may seem absurd. But this is a world where words like “fairy and “princess” are used so often they have become clichés. In that context, a sandal and absolute simplicity can be a radical move. So was swapping out the paillettes and bugle beads, the way Riccardo Tisci did at Givenchy, and instead using small circular fabric “mirrors” as adornment on cold-shoulder prairie-queen silk gowns. The most complicated dress in the collection, one that took 2,000 hours to make, was made solely of linked dream catchers, each woven from black thread by hand in a different pattern.It all made the corsetry and elaborate hip swathing on view at Ulyana Sergeenko seem stiff and old-fashioned by comparison — situated at one end of the continuum that terminates on the other with the mesmerizing garments made from hand-cast polyurethane, injection molding and laser cutting at Iris Van Herpen, which are mind-tingling in the most interesting way. Somewhere in the middle is Schiaparelli, where Bertrand Guyon is in the process of a slow shift away from knee-jerk surrealism.And though Karl Lagerfeld constructed a mirrored Art Deco salon complete with cream suede sofas and calla lilies for Chanel, transposing rooms at 31 Rue Cambon to the echoing environs of the Grand Palais, what was most notable was not the surround, but rather the way the silhouette had been altered by adding a plain leather belt, cinched just at the lower ribs, to everything from bouclé suiting to crystalline slips finished in a flounce of feathers. It could have been a discordant note amid the sparkling sophistication but instead it created an impression of streamlined modernity, and kept nostalgia at bay.It’s worth noting that, while Chanel (like Gaultier) is one of the few houses left that still closes its show with a bride — Elie Saab and Ralph & Russo also cling on, but most have jettisoned that anachronism — this time around she had lost her veil and simply strode the runway in a long pink dress. There was a cascade of ruffles at the sleeves and skirt, but look closer and the latter was cut just high enough in the front to allow freedom of movement.Or, put another way: progress.
Work may indeed be coming back to the United States. The real issue is whether human beings will do it.As Farhad Manjoo writes, American manufacturers now produce over 80 percent more than they did in 1987, using just two-thirds as many workers. The reason is automation, and here, political browbeating comes up against the laws of economics — robots are cheaper and often more efficient than people.Farhad’s statistic looks over a 30-year period. That underplays more recent advances like cheap and abundant sensors, cloud-connected computing systems and better algorithms. All of those things mean that robots are getting better at a fast rate. Throw in artificial intelligence, and robots are even faster at doing ordinary human tasks.That’s why we now see factories with just a few workers and lots of machines. Even the cloud data centers that sometimes power the robots don’t need that many workers. They are usually located in rural areas, sometimes in the shells of old factories, but they are full of robots.If you believe lots of Americans should work in American factories, it gets worse. As Farhad notes, many of the robots that are doing American work are built in China. China, eager to keep people employed and stay on top of all manufacturing, has made a business of making robots. Farhad doesn’t say whether the robot factories are automated.So, how bad is this for American workers? Maybe not dire. According to one recent study, robots are likely to take away parts of tasks, but not entire jobs. People need to learn to work alongside robots.Additionally, a big reason to have automated factories in the United States, instead of manufacturing in China, is to have a better grip on quality control and local distribution to major customers. That means jobs in operations management, loading and shipping. (Self-driving trucks are still a long way off, whatever the visionaries say.)Then there is the prospect that factories, like farms before them, will become largely automated and that people will find other work. Eric Schmidt, the executive chairman of Google’s parent company, Alphabet, has called this “outracing the robots,” which he sees as a global challenge to make people better at new science and math.There is also evidence that our highly automated, digital society has come to value human moments. Think of the rise of artisanal beers, the boom in personal trainers or the rising prices for live music. They are all signs that the valuable and scarce things people pay for have become exactly what a robot can never be: human.We can build a society of work around that, perhaps. At least until they build a robot that grows a nice, bushy, authentic-seeming beard, lives in Brooklyn and makes handcrafted cabinets. No sign of that out of China.
Let’s face it: Just about any boss on the planet would like to have the problems of Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive.In the recent holiday season, iPhone sales were up — though not up quite as much as in previous years. IPad sales continued to deteriorate. And now the company faces an uncertain environment with the Trump administration, on the issue of immigration and with regard to the president’s call for the company to build its products in the United States instead of China.Now that the gloomy stuff is out of the way, let’s point out the good news: On Tuesday, Apple reported that revenue in the last quarter of 2016 was $78.4 billion, up 3 percent compared with the same period a year earlier. The company’s profits actually fell slightly, to $17.9 billion, but mostly because it spent money to buy back shares.Also, Apple’s once-sleepy services business in things like app sales and music is growing fast, up to $7.2 billion for the quarter. And the company is up to $246 billion in cash and marketable securities.Much of that is in foreign accounts. Don’t be shocked if Apple finds a way to make a deal with the famous dealmaker in the White House to bring some of that treasure back to the United States.
It turns out that finding common ground with Donald J. Trump isn’t going to be that easy for Silicon Valley after all.Last month, a group of tech executives marched to the Trump Tower in Manhattan to meet with the president-elect, his advisers and his children. The message Mr. Trump delivered to the tech bosses was friendly: “I’m here to help.”This weekend, a string of tech executives — prodded by their employees — criticized Mr. Trump’s executive order temporarily blocking all refugees while also denying entry to citizens of Iran, Iraq and five other predominantly Muslim countries.In short, Mr. Trump had an answer to his offer, and it sounded like “no thanks.”While at least some of those executives spoke out because their employees demanded it, the standoff was inevitable. Aside from the venture capitalist and noted contrarian Peter Thiel, few in tech openly supported Mr. Trump.It is not difficult to understand why.While the tech industry might appreciate the lower taxes and less regulation that Mr. Trump has promised, the industry is globalist to the core. If you want to be an internet company, you’d be better be willing to operate all over the world. And if you want to compete with the likes of Google and Apple, you’d better be willing to hire engineers and salespeople from all over the planet.That’s a worldview in direct conflict with Mr. Trump’s nationalist politics (though his own company certainly operates in many countries).What’s more, despite their many faults — from comical self-regard to a habit of ignoring regulations found to be inconvenient — tech executives are an optimistic bunch. They often see possibilities where others see problems. That’s probably why they’re so rich.That world full of possibilities doesn’t jibe with Mr. Trump’s world full of danger.
It’s O.K. to feel a little confused about the direction the new administration in Washington is taking. And that is before you consider the case of Elon Musk and Tesla.As James Stewart writes, Mr. Musk, a brainy South African immigrant who has criticized Donald Trump and built Tesla Motors and SolarCity — which benefit from government subsidies — might seem the wrong fit in Washington these days.And yet shares of the carmaker Tesla, which has absorbed solar power company SolarCity, are going up. Analysts are even raising their estimates of how high they could go.Moreover, Mr. Musk has been a guest at two meetings of business leaders with Mr. Trump. What gives?Maybe these strange bedfellows aren’t so strange.Primarily, Tesla is both futuristic in its technology and traditional as an operation. Unlike big software outfits, it employs a lot of people with a relatively normal range of skills inside its factories. Tesla has 25,000 workers, our article notes, and could double that if it increases production in its battery factory. The factory is in Nevada, one of Mr. Trump’s battleground states in the last election.Mr. Musk, who likes big and bold visions, has discussed ways to rebuild the United States energy grid, too. That would be another huge project requiring traditional workers.And while Mr. Musk has taken $2 billion in subsidies, he needs them less now. Tesla will soon make 200,000 vehicles, which will trigger an end to his federal subsidies.And the subsidies paid out to the alternative energy industry appear to have enabled enough research and market power to make its offerings increasingly price competitive with fossil fuels.That means Mr. Trump could take credit for ending subsidies out of favor with his constituents, and Mr. Musk could prosper.Then, too, Mr. Musk is himself a brash and successful billionaire, something attractive to the president. At a recent business meeting, he pressed Mr. Trump for a tax on carbon fuels, something the president did not dismiss out of hand.That is almost a mark of a big business coming into its own: when you stop asking the government for handouts, and instead press it to hurt your competitor.
Google and Facebook have in record time sweated bullets, worked miracles and eliminated all unreliable information from the internet! According to William Shakespeare, everything you read online is now 100 percent reliable.Fake out.As Daisuke Wakabayashi and Mike Isaac write, the two internet giants have actually taken some small steps to remedy the plague of false or misleading news articles. Much, much more remains to be done.On Wednesday, Google said it had recently examined 550 sites suspected of deceiving users. It said it took action against 340 of them, and kicked 200 publishers off Google’s AdSense advertising network altogether. AdSense is how many fake news sites (and legitimate ones) make money.Those numbers may sound like a lot, but over 2 million publishers use AdSense. In November, Google said it would ban fake news sites from the advertising network, but it seems as though the ban is a taller order than first thought.One problem Google faces is that a lot of fake news amounts to selective quoting, improper emphasis or assertions that are hard to disprove, instead of outright falsehoods. Google has had far more success combating more straightforward schemes. The company said it took action on 47,000 sites promoting dodgy weight-loss methods.For its part, Facebook said on Wednesday it had made changes to its Trending Topics feature, which prominently shows what is popular on Facebook at a given time.The new version appeared to privilege more reliable information, but also to call upon the reader to act as something of a judge — the publisher of the Trending item is identified, and everyone in the same geographic area sees the same items.Put together, the changes signaled an attempt to strike a “we publish, you decide” stance that absolves Facebook of responsibility for declaring what is and is not true.We have arrived at a strange time: Declaring what is true and real has become a political act. Profit-making companies and people are rushing to seem apolitical.That may be the real news of the moment.
Samsung has a main culprit in its combustible battery fiasco, and the problem is among the hardest to fix. It is Samsung itself.As Choe Sang-Hun and Paul Mozur write, the South Korean technology giant, the world’s largest maker of smartphones (among other things), has delivered a report on how the battery in its Galaxy Note 7 smartphone failed so spectacularly.As originally issued, the Galaxy Note 7 had a propensity to catch fire. While not a widespread defect, it happened enough that United State airlines banned the phone’s operation, and eventually the phone itself, from flights. Having your brand announced as a lethal hazard on a commercial flight pretty much defines bad public relations.In an hourlong presentation, Samsung laid the blame on manufacturing flaws, along with aggressive efforts to make the phone’s design as sleek as possible. In this case, that appears to have created a chronic safety problem.But as Sang-Hun and Paul write, the real difficulty appears to be the hard-charging nature of Samsung itself, and a culture of continuous short-term achievement that leads to stress, corner-cutting and expediency over quality. That is a recipe for wrecking a brand.There have been similar problems in tech before. Eleven years ago, the batteries in Dell laptops caught fire, possibly in bigger numbers than affected the Note 7. Japan has been dogged for more than five years by the meltdown of reactors at Fukushima. The meltdown was caused by an earthquake and tsunami, but three executives at the once-infallible Tokyo Electric Power Company, or Tepco, were indicted on charges of criminal negligence.Dell’s culture was considered stingy to the point of error at times, and Tepco was seen as arrogant. Further back, the involvement of organized crime in the destruction and rebuilding of Kobe, Japan, after a 1995 earthquake exemplified a kind of larger corruption in Japanese society. The 1979 explosions of Ford Pintos felt like a symbol of an American auto industry in decline.While Samsung’s phones resulted in less damage than any of those things, it is likely to cause trauma in South Korea. That is because for years, big companies, in particular Samsung, have been closely identified with the national character and the government’s industrial policy as well as how individuals might succeed within the culture. Nobody felt that way about Dell.If that goes deep, South Korea may be in for a period of troubling introspection. Hopefully as a prelude to re-energizing and renewal.
Perhaps now is not the time to bring up crass things like profits and losses, but it is at least interesting to note that the social media tool at the center of civic engagement in the United States is run by a profitless company.Yes, we’re talking about Twitter. President Trump still uses it. Often. Perhaps you’ve heard about that. And as Farhad Manjoo writes, protesters are using Twitter to essentially create flash protests — as we saw with largely leaderless rallies at airports around the country over the weekend.Yet, for all the attention paid to it, Twitter still doesn’t turn a profit. Or, at least, it hasn’t so far. And when the company releases its next earnings report on Feb. 9, analysts predict it won’t have made any money in the last quarter of 2016. In fact, they expect Twitter to lose 11 cents a share, according to Zacks Investment Research.That Twitter can’t make money when the whole world is paying attention to tweets has to be a source of endless frustration for the company. But it may well be that for a company that mostly depends on advertising for its revenue, notoriety and controversy aren’t necessarily good business.
President Donald J. Trump appointed Dana J. Boente, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, to be acting attorney general on Monday night after he dismissed Sally Q. Yates from that role over her refusal to defend his executive order on immigration in court. The abrupt dismissal of Ms. Yates and the appointment of Mr. Boente were the latest twists in a fast-moving crisis over the executive order.Mr. Boente is expected to serve as acting attorney general until Mr. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, Senator Jeff Sessions, an Alabama Republican, is confirmed. The Senate Judiciary Committee is expected to vote on his nomination as soon as Tuesday, which means Mr. Boente may be in his new role for a only matter of days.So, who is Mr. Boente?Career Civil ServantMr. Boente, 62, has worked for the Justice Department since 1984 under both Republican and Democratic administrations. He served in the department’s tax division and held several positions in the Eastern District of Virginia. He also served as the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Louisiana from December 2012 to September 2013.In October 2015, Mr. Boente was nominated by President Barack Obama to be the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia and was confirmed by the United States Senate that December.The district sprawls across a wide swath of the state. It covers six million people and often handles cases that touch on national security because its territory includes facilities like the Pentagon and the headquarters of the Central Intelligence Agency.Before joining the Justice Department, Mr. Boente clerked for a chief United States district judge, J. Waldo Ackerman, in the Central District of Illinois in 1982.‘Reliable Middle Child’Mr. Boente may have become acting attorney general amid turmoil centered on the new Republican president, but he has been praised by members of both parties during his career.Former Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch affectionately praised Mr. Boente last February when he was sworn in as United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia.She called him one of the Justice Department’s “consummate utility players” and pointed to a string public corruption prosecutions he lead in Virginia and Louisiana. He oversaw the prosecution of former Gov. Robert F. McDonnell of Virginia, a Republican whose conviction was ultimately overturned by the Supreme Court, and of former United States Representative William J. Jefferson and former Mayor Ray Nagin of New Orleans, both Louisiana Democrats.“He is that reliable middle child, the one you could always count on to be there for you,” Ms. Lynch said, according to The Washington Post.‘Seniority and Loyalty’Mr. Trump appears to have found Mr. Boente to be similarly reliable.Joshua Stueve, a spokesman for the United States attorney’s office in Alexandria, Va., said Mr. Boente had no hesitation about accepting the acting attorney general’s job, given his “seniority and loyalty” to the department.Mr. Stueve also said Mr. Boente told the White House he was willing to do something that Ms. Yates would not: sign off on Mr. Trump’s executive order.In an interview with The Washington Post on Monday night, Mr. Boente pointed out that his office had already been defending the president’s executive order against a lawsuit brought in a Virginia federal court.“I was enforcing it this afternoon,” Mr. Boente told The Post. “Our career department employees were defending the action in court, and I expect that’s what they’ll do tomorrow, appropriately and properly.”Indeed, shortly before midnight on Monday, Mr. Boente rescinded the guidance Ms. Yates had given department lawyers earlier in the evening and formally ordered them to defend the president’s immigration ban.
NEW DELHI — Three years ago, Dr. Rajesh Yadav, an investigator with the India Epidemic Intelligence Service, moved to the city of Muzaffarpur, the site of one of the country’s most mysterious outbreaks. And he waited.Every year in mid-May, as temperatures reached scorching heights, parents took children who had been healthy the night before to the hospital. The children awakened with a high-pitch cry in the early morning, many parents said.Then the youths began having seizures and slipping into comas. In about 40 percent of cases, they died.Every year in July, with the arrival of monsoon rains, the outbreak ended as suddenly as it began.Beginning in 1995, investigations variously ascribed the phenomenon to heat stroke; to infections carried by rats, bats or sand flies; or to pesticides used in the region’s ubiquitous lychee orchards. But there were few signposts for investigators.Instead of occurring in clusters, the illness typically struck only one child in a village, often leaving even siblings unaffected.A joint investigation by India’s National Center for Disease Control and the India office of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, published  in the British medical journal The Lancet Global Health on Tuesday, has identified a surprising culprit: the lychee fruit itself, when eaten on an empty stomach by malnourished children.In 2015, as a result of the investigation, health officials began urging parents in the area to be sure to feed young children an evening meal and to limit their consumption of lychees (sometimes spelled litchi).In two seasons, the number of reported cases per year dropped to less than 50 from hundreds.“It was an unexplained illness for so many years,” said Padmini Srikantiah, a senior epidemiologist with the C.D.C. and the senior author of the paper. “This is kind of emblematic of why we collaborate, to build this kind of systematic approach.”The Lancet article walks through a two-year medical detective story, as epidemiologists like Dr. Yadav closely examined the lives of hundreds of afflicted children, trying to understand everything they had eaten, drunk and breathed.“It was a very intense situation, because we witnessed children dying in front of our eyes every day, as soon as they arrived at the hospital,” said Dr. Yadav, who now works with the C.D.C. in Atlanta. Especially difficult were the detailed interviews of parents, many of whom had carried a convulsing or comatose child for hours to get to the hospital.“They were in a kind of panic,” he said. “Their children were dying, and it was an unknown thing.”The first clue: There was no evidence the children had infections.For 20 years, clinicians were unable to determine if the disease, which led to acute brain swelling known as encephalopathy, was caused by an infection — the immediate assumption in many outbreaks here.Investigators pored over records from the previous year’s outbreak and were struck by the fact that many of the sick children did not have a fever. Analysis of spinal fluid samples overwhelmingly showed that the affected children did not have elevated counts of white blood cells, a sign the body is fighting infection.The second clue: Most of the victims had very low blood sugar levels.Having collected biological samples from more than 300 children, the researchers were able to scan a large number of markers — including some they hadn’t suspected.Glucose had never been a particular concern for investigators. But some of the affected children had strikingly low levels, and those with low blood glucose were twice as likely to die, Dr. Srikantiah said.“It seemed to be a little signal,” she continued. “One of the things we heard multiple times from the children’s mothers was that they didn’t really eat dinner properly.”The third clue: Outbreaks had been associated with the ackee fruit.It was in the fall of 2013, during a conference call with colleagues in Atlanta, that someone mentioned “Jamaican vomiting sickness,” an outbreak in the West Indies that for many decades caused brain swelling, convulsions and altered mental states in children.The outbreak turned out to be tied to hypoglycin, a toxin found in the ackee fruit that inhibits the body’s ability to synthesize glucose, leading to acute hypoglycemia, or low blood glucose levels. “It had been going on for a decade, if not a century, before people really figured out what it was,” Dr. Srikantiah said. “Now, the grandmothers and the mothers teach their kids, ‘Don’t eat the unripe ackee fruit.’ ”By late 2014, laboratory tests confirmed that lychees also contain high levels of hypoglycin, as well as a similar toxin known as methylenecyclopropyl glycine, or MCPG.This was an answer hiding in plain sight. The Muzaffarpur area, in India’s east, produces about 70 percent of India’s lychee harvest, and around the affected villages, “you really couldn’t go 100 meters without bumping into a lychee orchard,” Dr. Srikantiah said, referring to a distance of 330 feet.Though orchards were typically guarded by caretakers, children often ate lychees that were unripe or that had fallen to the ground. But because everyone in the region eats them, it was difficult for many to believe that, in isolated cases, it could set off a catastrophic illness.The fourth clue: Affected children had huge metabolic imbalances.By early 2015, C.D.C. laboratories had developed a test to measure hypoglycin in urine. They found extraordinary abnormalities in the affected children. “The folks in the genetic labs said ‘We haven’t seen anything like this,’ ” Dr. Srikantiah said. “This was clearly abnormal.”With that established, the investigators asked participants if they would be comfortable issuing recommendations based on their findings: that young children in the affected areas be encouraged to always eat an evening meal, and that consumption of lychees should be limited.Everyone agreed. And it was done.
WASHINGTON — The Trump administration is pulling back advertisements that encourage people to sign up for health insurance under former President Barack Obama’s health care law.The ads were to have run in the next few days of the annual open enrollment period, which ends on Tuesday. In the last few years, large numbers of consumers signed up just before the deadline.Under the Affordable Care Act, people who go without insurance are subject to tax penalties. But President Trump and Republicans in Congress are determined to repeal the law, including provisions that require most Americans to have insurance.“The federal government has spent more than $60 million promoting the open enrollment period,” a spokesman for the Department of Health and Human Services said Thursday. “We have pulled back roughly $5 million of the final placement in an effort to look for efficiencies where they exist.”However, the department continued to send email messages urging consumers to visit its insurance marketplace at HealthCare.gov.“Final Deadline,” said a typical email sent from the federal marketplace on Thursday. “Our records show that you still need to submit a 2017 application — before the final deadline on January 31. This year, millions of uninsured Americans have incomes that qualify them for reduced monthly costs on high-quality plans. Don’t miss your final chance for 2017 health insurance.”Since Nov. 1, more than 11.5 million people have signed up for insurance or had their coverage automatically renewed under the Affordable Care Act, federal officials said this month. More than 8.7 million of those consumers were in states that use HealthCare.gov as an enrollment portal.Kevin J. Counihan, the former chief executive of the federal insurance exchange, accused the Trump administration of trying to “sabotage open enrollment,” and called the action “outrageous.”“We know that more young people enroll during the final days of open enrollment, but they need to be reminded of the January 31 deadline,” Mr. Counihan said. “Having health insurance is still law of the land. If the president and Republicans in Congress want to change that, they should come up with a plan and show it to the American people.”
The Long Island woman who fooled the art world by pawning off paintings by an unknown artist from Queens as the work of Modernist masters was sentenced to time served on Tuesday, more than five years after her actions helped lead to $80 million in fraudulent sales and the demise of New York’s oldest gallery.Between 1994 and 2009 prosecutors have said that the woman, Glafira Rosales, a little-known art dealer on Long Island, and her boyfriend came up with 60 pieces that they marketed as previously unknown works by artists including Robert Motherwell, Willem de Kooning and Jackson Pollock. In fact, they had all been created by a Chinese immigrant who used a garage in Queens as his studio.In her sentencing, the judge, Katherine Polk Failla of Federal District Court in Manhattan, cited defense arguments that Ms. Rosales had been intimidated and abused by her former boyfriend, who is also charged in the case and whom the defense described in court papers as the mastermind of the scheme. She also feared being separated from her daughter, according to the defense.“Ms. Rosales, I’m not putting you back in jail,” Judge Failla said.Ms. Rosales, 60, had served three months in jail. She will be subject to three years of supervised release including 90 days of home detention, the judge said. She will also pay restitution in an amount to be determined. Her boyfriend, Jose Carlos Bergantiños Diaz, was arrested in 2014 in Spain but his extradition has been blocked.During the audacious fraud, which spanned 15 years, Ms. Rosales sold the bogus works to galleries in Manhattan, including the venerable Knoedler & Company on the Upper East Side. When the scheme came to light, experts agreed that it was the largest art fraud in modern memory.Knoedler, founded in 1846, went out of business just ahead of lawsuits by prominent collectors over the fakes. In 2013 Ms. Rosales pleaded guilty to nine counts of conspiracy, fraud and other crimes. Knoedler has said it never realized the works were fake.In the case of Ms. Rosales, the sentencing guidelines, which take into account the seriousness of the offense and the offender’s criminal history, had suggested a prison term of 151 to 181 months. But her lawyer, Bryan C. Skarlatos, asked for leniency, saying Mr. Bergantiños Diaz had coerced Ms. Rosales into assisting him.“He hit her,” Mr. Skarlatos told the judge. “He broke her nose, he left scars on her body.”A prosecutor, Patrick Egan, did not object to the request for time served, saying Ms. Rosales had provided “instrumental” evidence, telling investigators how the fraudulent paintings had been made, where they had been made, what fake stories had been used to sell them and how those tales had originated.Prosecutors said that Mr. Bergantiños Diaz, met and befriended the forger, Pei-Shen Qian in the 1980s as he was painting on the streets. Mr. Qian mimicked the varied styles and forged the various names of the Abstract Expressionists he copied and Mr. Bergantiños Diaz treated the works to give them the false patina of age. The artist, who has also been charged, fled to China. He has insisted he did not realize his work was being passed off as original.Ms. Rosales told galleries that the works came from a mystery collector who wished to remain anonymous, and her story and the artworks were embraced to an extent that illustrated how vulnerable the art market could be to any sophisticated fraud.The most rigorous examination of flaws in the authentication process came last year during the trial in a lawsuit filed by Domenico De Sole, the chairman of Sotheby’s, and his wife Eleanore, who had bought a forged Rothko from Knoedler for $8.3 million.The witnesses included a parade of experts, including some who said that the gallery had misrepresented their opinions of certain works. Christopher Rothko, the artist’s son, said his name had inaccurately been included on a list of experts who had viewed the bogus work. And before the extent of the forgeries became clear, some experts endorsed the fake paintings while receiving undisclosed consulting fees from Knoedler. Others denied authenticating bogus works but nonetheless acknowledged they had expressed enthusiasm for them.The suit against Knoedler was settled for an undisclosed amount just as the gallery’s former owner and president were set to testify.
WASHINGTON — Democrats began grappling on Wednesday with their most consequential strategic choice to date in the age of Trump: how aggressively to oppose the president’s Supreme Court pick, Neil M. Gorsuch.In choosing a respected, plainly qualified and deeply conservative jurist, President Trump has dared Democrats to pursue the kind of blanket obstructionism that they long accused Republicans of embracing during the Obama administration.But for a party that has often strained to match the fury and zeal of its base during the wave of anti-Trump activism since the election, a full-scale showdown may prove unavoidable, doubling as a referendum on resistance tactics under a White House that liberals fear and abhor.Democrats intend to remind the public, at great length, about Republicans’ treatment of Merrick B. Garland, President Barack Obama’s nominee to fill the vacant seat last year, who was blocked from even receiving a hearing. The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, said a justice should not be seated during an election year, even though there is no prohibition on such action.Immediately after Mr. Trump’s announcement on Tuesday, the two parties rushed headlong into an embrace of the other’s former arguments. Republicans cast Judge Gorsuch as an unassailable choice, as Democrats had done with Judge Garland, trumpeting his record on the federal Court of Appeals and his impressive credentials.They reminded some Senate Democrats that they had voted to confirm Judge Gorsuch to a lower court once upon a time, as some Republicans had for Judge Garland.And Democrats insisted, after nearly a year spent lamenting a vacancy on the court after Justice Antonin Scalia’s death, that Judge Gorsuch must not be allowed to assume the seat.“The Democrats should treat Trump’s SCOTUS pick with the exact same courtesy the GOP showed Merrick Garland,” Dan Pfeiffer, a former senior adviser to Mr. Obama, wrote on Twitter. “Don’t flinch, don’t back down.”Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic minority leader, said he would insist that Judge Gorsuch meet the 60-vote threshold required to overcome a filibuster in the Senate. That would require eight members of the Democratic caucus to join the 52 members of the Republican majority to advance the nomination, or force Republicans to consider the so-called nuclear option — as Mr. Trump has urged, if necessary — to change longstanding rules and push through the nomination on a simple majority vote.Reactions to Judge Gorsuch’s nomination among Democrats seemed to sort themselves into three camps: There were some cautious statements, often from moderate Democrats in states that Mr. Trump had won, urging careful consideration of the pick. There were policy-based concerns raised about Judge Gorsuch’s trail of conservative opinions and leanings. And there were arguments that did not focus much on Judge Gorsuch at all, framing the choice of any judge not named Merrick Garland to be illegitimate.“This is a stolen seat,” said Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon. “This is the first time in American history that one party has blockaded a nominee for almost a year in order to deliver a seat to a president of their own party. If this tactic is rewarded rather than resisted, it will set a dangerous new precedent in American governance.”At the same time, Democrats and progressive activists have begun zeroing in on elements of Judge Gorsuch’s record. Among their other concerns, he has voted in favor of employers, including Hobby Lobby, that cited religious objections while refusing to provide some forms of contraception coverage to female workers.Mr. Schumer said Judge Gorsuch had “repeatedly sided with corporations over working people” and demonstrated “a hostility toward women’s rights.”Even before some Democrats weighed in, Republicans dismissed any complaints about Judge Gorsuch. Some lawmakers were more creative than others.“Senator Schumer is about to tell Americans that Judge Gorsuch kicks puppies and heckles piano recitals,” Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska said in a statement Tuesday evening. “That’s hogwash.”
Demonstrators turned out in force and on short notice at rallies across the country on Sunday to condemn President Trump’s executive order restricting immigration.Protesters amassed in public spaces and at airports to oppose the order, which they assailed as un-American, even as the administration defended it as crucial to improving national security. The executive order, signed on Friday, stranded travelers around the world over the weekend and caused widespread confusion.In Washington, protesters gathered by the thousands outside the front lawn of the White House to show their disgust with Mr. Trump’s decision and their solidarity with Muslims.“Shame,” they chanted, hoisting homemade signs toward the Executive Mansion, where Mr. Trump was scheduled to spend part of the day making telephone calls to foreign leaders and later hosting a private screening of “Finding Dory,” an animated film about a fish who travels the ocean in hopes of reuniting with its family.“No hate, no fear,” the protesters added later. “Refugees are welcome here.”Among the protesters were some former Obama administration appointees.Matt Nosanchuk, who served as the White House’s liaison to the Jewish community under President Barack Obama from 2013 to 2016, said on Sunday that he had been in touch with several former colleagues as they made plans to attend the hastily arranged protest and ran into others in the crowd.“What Trump may not realize is you have a whole cadre of Obama appointees who are really good organizers, who have been activated and who are not going to stand by,” he said.Security fencing and reviewing stands still in place from Inauguration Day kept crowds at a distance from the White House but did not stop the numbers from swelling through the afternoon, when the protesters left to march to Capitol Hill.As marchers passed the Trump International Hotel in Washington, boos and profanities filled Pennsylvania Avenue. Elsewhere in the city, protesters carrying signs and candles marched up the sidewalk opposite the vice president’s house, most walking silently and many with children.At a rally in Battery Park in Lower Manhattan, thousands gathered in protest as nearby ferries shuttled visitors to the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island.Asma Shuaib, 22, a student from Jackson Heights, Queens, and a Muslim, said she had come to resist the president’s executive order.Through tears, she disavowed violence in the name of Islam and paraphrased the Prophet Muhammad: “If you see something that you believe in your heart is wrong, you must speak out, and then act.”For over an hour, speakers including Senators Chuck Schumer and Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York, Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, Mayor Bill de Blasio and immigrant activists addressed the peaceful crowd amid chants of “No ban, no wall,” “Let them in” and “Impeach.”As they did elsewhere in the country, lawyers stood in the international arrivals terminal of San Francisco International Airport, holding up signs offering free assistance to those awaiting the arrival of family members from countries affected by the Trump administration’s order.Several thousand protesters, accompanied by a brass band and drummers, paraded past check-in counters, chanting, “Say it loud, say it clear, refugees are welcome here!”In Arizona, which has taken more Syrian refugees than any other state, a few hundred protesters greeted travelers arriving at the busiest terminal at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport, their signs facing the street, visible to anyone who drove in. Many motorists honked, some to the beat of whatever slogan the crowd was chanting at the time.With a megaphone, Orlando Arenas, 33, kept everyone going. “Tell me what community looks like,” he said, and the protesters answered, “This is what community looks like.”
Psychological distress may increase your chances of dying from cancer.Researchers interviewed 163,363 adults in England and Scotland using well-validated questionnaires on general and mental health. They followed the population in 16 studies conducted between 1994 and 2008.After controlling for age, smoking, physical activity and other factors, they found that compared with those with the lowest scores on depression and anxiety, those with the highest had higher rates of cancer death. The associations were particularly strong for colon and rectal, prostate, pancreatic and esophageal cancers, and for leukemia. In instances of colorectal and prostate cancer, they found a “dose-response” effect: the greater the distress, the greater the likelihood of death from those cancers.People might have had undiagnosed cancer at the start of the study, which would affect their mood, so the researchers accounted for this possibility by doing an analysis that excluded study members who died of cancer in the first five years. The results were largely the same.The study, in BMJ, is observational so cannot determine cause and effect, and it depended in part on self-reports. “The extent to which these associations could be causal,” the authors write, “requires further testing with alternative study designs.”
Derek Fisher has not said much about the Knicks since he was dismissed as their coach last February. While Jeff Hornacek now has the challenging assignment of trying to lead the team back to respectability, Fisher has settled into a role as a TV broadcaster in Los Angeles, analyzing Lakers games.But in an article published Monday by Bleacher Report, Fisher spoke out about his unhappy stint with the Knicks and its inglorious ending, which came after the team had lost nine of 10 games.Fisher was fired after coaching 136 games and winning just 40. His tenure was marked not only by ineptitude on the court, but by controversy off it. That came in the 2015-16 preseason, when Fisher was involved in an altercation with Matt Barnes, a former teammate (now playing for the Sacramento Kings) and the estranged husband of Gloria Govan, who had become Fisher’s girlfriend.When Fisher was dismissed by Phil Jackson, the Knicks’ president, the Barnes episode was not cited as a reason, although the fact that Fisher, a coach, had begun a relationship with the estranged wife of an active player led to questions about Fisher’s judgment.In the article, Fisher alluded to the episode and seemed to suggest that it had played a role in his dismissal.“We were doing a lot of really good things with the Knicks,” he said. “That’s what bothers me. The good that was being done got overshadowed by opinion, actually — inaccurate opinion about a personal matter.”Fisher’s relationship with Jackson, his former coach on the Lakers, soured during their time together in New York. Fisher made it clear in the article that he had not been happy trying to coach to Jackson’s specifications, even if Jackson had won 11 N.B.A. titles as a head coach, and suggested that he had been unwisely asked to impose the past on the present.“They don’t teach ninth-grade algebra the same way they used to teach ninth-grade algebra,” Fisher said.He also asserted that the current Knicks, under Hornacek, have more talent than his Knicks teams did but nothing to show for it.“We were able to take a team that wasn’t as talented as the team they have now, and we were much better,” Fisher said. “And much further along than this group is that they have now.’’
It’s almost a coronation: Every year, the Sundance Film Festival anoints a darling or two — indie writer-directors who are poised to break out, usually with their first feature. (Geremy Jasper was one at the festival that just ended in Park City, Utah.) These lucky few tend to go on to box-office or critical success, maybe even the Oscars. Think Damien Chazelle, whose “Whiplash” was the toast of the 2014 season; his “La La Land” is now the best-picture front-runner.But what about the festival filmmakers whose works are lauded and distributed, but whose career paths are less charmed? After they’ve packed up their snow gear, there are tantalizing moments and deep frustrations. Many go on what’s known as the “water bottle tour,” meetings with development executives and agents in Los Angeles (where you’re more likely to leave with a bottle of Evian than a production deal). Most don’t have new scripts ready, a huge impediment, said the producer Anne Carey.Then they struggle against the industry’s narrow expectations. “Any person coming out of Sundance is in a box, particularly if you only have one film under your name,” said the filmmaker Justin Simien. “And if you happen to be in the black box or the gay box or the woman box, I think you’re in a smaller box.”Meanwhile, the clock is ticking: “You have a whole year, and then there’s a whole new batch of kids at Sundance, and then it’s their year,” said the director Kat Candler. “Your spotlight has shifted.”For three filmmakers — Mr. Simien, 33, from Los Angeles; Ms. Candler, 42, who lives in Austin, Tex.; and Sara Colangelo, 37, based in New York — who made their feature debuts in 2014, alongside Mr. Chazelle, what happened next felt like one step forward, two back. Their paths hold lessons for other artists and offer a glimpse into how Hollywood careers are really made.2014 Two years before, Justin Simien quit his day job to make his debut feature, “Dear White People.” He had worked in movie marketing, so he had some insider savvy. What he didn’t know was how his film, a satire of race relations set on a college campus, would be received by the mostly white audiences at Sundance. “I was kind of terrified, to be honest,” he said.“Dear White People” struck a chord, earning a festival award for breakthrough talent. A distribution deal soon followed. “I went into it just hoping that when I came out, I could at least pay my rent,” Mr. Simien said. “That didn’t happen.”But in Los Angeles afterward, he was in demand, attending dozens of development meetings for months. He understood the process: “Part of being a development person is checking off the list” that you’ve met with Sundance alumni, he said.Nonetheless, it seemed like he had arrived. Even if the offers were not as big as those some of his white counterparts were getting — “Nobody was talking about ‘Jurassic World,’” he said, the film Colin Trevorrow landed after his Sundance debut — he didn’t feel pigeonholed. Several projects floated up, like a dark comedy with Anthony Mackie attached.Yet Mr. Simien was still strapped for cash. Driving to those Beverly Hills meetings, “I was afraid to pull up to the valet, because my hubcaps were falling off,” he said.In the spring, he sold a book version of “Dear White People” that kept him afloat financially. The film opened in the fall, to critical acclaim.2015 As Mr. Simien toured with his film, he found a second career as a speaker, especially at colleges. “Any school that was dealing with a race issue would book the film and then book me,” he said. He made the movie to spark discussion, so these encounters were gratifying and meaningful.He jotted down stories he heard from the students, too. When a studio approached him about making a TV version of “Dear White People,” his notes — fresh ideas — were immediately useful.2016 In May, Netflix announced the series. In June, Mr. Simien sat in a production space and marveled at his fortune. “I’m in an office! There’s a lamp from HomeGoods! It’s mind-boggling,” he said. He presided over a diverse writers’ room of seven people, discussing civil rights, “blacktivism” and cultural identity. With the veteran showrunner Yvette Lee Bowser, he learned to make a TV series.2017 “That was probably the hardest thing I ever did,” Mr. Simien said in January after finishing the show’s first season. Production had wrapped on Election Day; the series’ themes were landing in a much more charged cultural landscape than where they were conceived. “This show is 100 percent part of the resistance,” he said.Mr. Simien is pleased with it but itching to get to other projects. “Creatively, I just need to prove to myself and to others in the industry, I’m not a one-trick pony,” he said.Hiring for his series, he had noted that white male colleagues had been given more career chances. “The opportunities that I have tend to be self-made,” he said, adding, “You just gotta keep grinding — which has worked out so far.”2014 The writer-director Sara Colangelo arrived at Sundance that January with an ambitious debut, “Little Accidents.” Set and shot in a West Virginia coal-mining town, with a sprawling story line, it was created after Ms. Colangelo won a coveted spot in the Sundance screenwriting and directing labs three years earlier, and secured a budget of $1.2 million, all major for a first-time indie filmmaker. The cast — including Elizabeth Banks, Josh Lucas and Chloë Sevigny — was enviable, too. But even as she set out to unveil it, Ms. Colangelo said, she knew that her film was not exactly what she wanted it to be.“There were moments in the editing room where I was like, I’m enormously proud, but these things might not be working,” she said. Was the film too sad? How would the marketplace react? “I was aware of what the challenges were.”The film came with hard-to-meet expectations. Critics at the festival praised the acting, though, and the scene-setting.Ms. Colangelo made the Los Angeles rounds that fall, and was sent a few scripts, but no jobs materialized. She made ends meet doing corporate videos. Financially, she said, “there were nine months or so where it was like, it’s going to be tough.”2015 “Little Accidents” made it to theaters a full year after Sundance. Reviews were largely welcoming, but it barely eked out $10,000 — total — at the box office. Still, Ms. Colangelo earned a nomination for best first screenplay at that year’s Indie Spirit Awards, and that led to a few writer-for-hire jobs, polishing other people’s work.In the meantime, she watched friends and Sundance alumni — mostly men — advance. Doubts crept in: Could she have done more on “Little Accidents”? Her male counterparts were often allowed reshoots. Somehow, for them, “the money was found.”She asked herself, “What kind of leader do you have to be to get those things? Is it charisma? Is it truly gender?”She was buoyed when Israeli producers asked her to adapt an acclaimed, female-driven foreign drama. (They declined to reveal it.) Ms. Colangelo worked on the script for months and finally signed a deal at the end of the year.2016 As the Israeli film’s location and financiers bounced from Canada to New York, and casting decisions loomed, Ms. Colangelo hung on to direct. She vowed to be more flexible on production details and bolder in her focus on story.2017 Her self-doubt was erased, replaced with excitement, and pride: She plans to begin shooting the new film this summer, shortly after the birth of her first child.“There’s this feeling that the industry sometimes gives you, that you have this window of opportunity after Sundance and if you don’t perform perfectly in that moment or have a perfect script, then the window shuts,” she said. “And I think that’s a dangerous way to think about it.”Momentum, she discovered, can rebound. “And it’s O.K. to retrieve it and find it later.”2014 A self-taught filmmaker with several shorts to her credit, Kat Candler landed at Sundance with the family drama “Hellion.” “I was definitely hoping to get representation,” she said, a distribution deal and attention for other projects.She knew that breakout success was rare and that her route would be tough, especially without superlative reviews.A month later, she did her water bottle week in Los Angeles. “It felt like ‘The Amazing Race,’” she said, eight meetings a day. Little came of them.“Hellion,” starring Aaron Paul of “Breaking Bad,” opened in theaters five months later, and Ms. Candler hit the road to promote it. Live Q. and A.s, Skype sessions — “Anytime anybody asked, it was a yes,” she said. “It was exhausting, after a while. I wish someone had warned me.”Her promotion helped, but not much; “Hellion” just did not have the marketing dollars. In retrospect, she said, her efforts distracted her from “putting all the pieces for another project together.”2015 A year after Sundance, Ms. Candler was growing anxious. “I felt like, oh, what am I doing?” she said.But she was halfway into a 12-month mentorship program, sponsored by the Sundance women’s filmmaking initiative. “The life coach was pretty transformative,” she said. She shelved her jealousy about others’ deals. “I can go write for four hours and feel a sense of accomplishment,” she said.A push to break into TV directing was fruitless, though. No one wanted to an untested TV director, even if she had already conquered the big screen. (Male directors, research shows, face a lower bar for hiring.)“Sometimes you just wonder, how much harder do I have to work to prove myself?” Ms. Candler said. Her life coach offered a mantra: You belong in the room. So at every meeting, she said, “I tell myself, ‘You’ve earned your space.’”In the summer, she shot a campaign for Canon. Besides money from teaching a college class, it was her first real paycheck in years. Still, she worried about car insurance payments and other bills.2016 Back in Los Angeles, Ms. Candler had meetings about a female-centered feature she was writing. It could go indie or mainstream, depending on the stars and how much control Ms. Candler ceded. “Do I really want to go out for a project that doesn’t have great humanity? No,” she said.A turning point came in the spring, when she shot two episodes of “Queen Sugar,” the series created by Ava DuVernay that employs only female directors. No pitch meetings were necessary; they knew each other through the festival circuit.The paucity of female directors has been a hot topic in Hollywood, but Ms. Candler was over it. “Just hire,” she said. “It really isn’t that hard.”2017 “Queen Sugar” was renewed, and Ms. DuVernay asked Ms. Candler to return, now as the producing director.Ms. Candler went on to shoot episodes of other series. She has work lined up through 2018.She felt confident before “Queen Sugar,” she said. “I just don’t think that people had confidence in us. Ava legitimized all of us.”After 17 years in the field, she said, she was at last making a living as a filmmaker.
Drab airport screening areas and waiting rooms were transformed into chaotic scenes on Sunday, with lawyers saying that border agents had put pressure on detainees and created an information blackout that left many struggling to discern how President Trump’s immigration order was being applied.In New York, a lawyer said detainees were being moved from one terminal to another in handcuffs. In Los Angeles, an Iranian graduate student was pushed by border agents to sign documents allowing them to send her out of the country, her lawyers said. And in the Washington area, agents told lawyers that officials had barred detainees from getting legal help, despite a federal judge’s order that legal permanent residents be given access to lawyers.Panic gave way to euphoria in some cases as travelers who had been detained for many hours were released and reunited with relatives. But well into Sunday, two days after Mr. Trump signed an executive order keeping many foreigners from entering the country, lawyers were still sweeping airport arrival sections in search of waiting relatives, often their only source of information about who was being held.Some detainees said they had slept on office chairs. In Los Angeles, lawyers said Customs and Border Protection agents had told them there were cots but had declined to say how many there were, or how many people were being held. Detainees were told their phones would be disruptive and had to be taken. Lawyers and relatives were growing increasingly concerned about older detainees with medical problems.Among those with ailments were an Iranian couple who had arrived in Los Angeles on visitors’ visas. The man, in his late 60s, had been through two open-heart operations, and he and his wife, in her late 50s, were both diabetic. After arriving at the airport on Saturday afternoon, they were allowed to call their daughter in the United States only once, around 1 a.m. on Sunday, said Patricia Corrales, a private lawyer working on detainees’ cases there. Relatives and lawyers repeatedly asked whether the couple were receiving proper medical care but learned nothing further from border agents.Ms. Corrales, who was an Immigration and Customs Enforcement lawyer for 17 years, said, “I think they don’t necessarily have the resources, the staff and experience to deal with these large numbers.”In a statement, the Department of Homeland Security said, “We are committed to ensuring that all individuals affected by the executive orders, including those affected by the court orders, are being provided all rights afforded under the law.”Some detainees were reportedly pressured to sign documents they hardly understood and then put on flights out of the country. When two brothers from Yemen, Tareq Aqel Mohammed Aziz, 21, and Ammar, 19, landed on Saturday morning at Dulles International Airport near Washington with immigrant visas, they planned to board a connecting flight to Flint, Mich., to join their father. Instead, they were taken off the plane, put into handcuffs and told they needed to sign a form or face being barred from the country for five years, said their lawyer, Simon Y. Sandoval-Moshenberg, of the Legal Aid Justice Center in Virginia. They signed the form and were quickly put on a plane to Ethiopia.A 24-year-old Iranian woman who is a graduate student in the United States told relatives of a similar problem at Los Angeles International Airport, where she arrived on Saturday after a trip visiting family members in Europe. Border agents told the woman that her student visa was no longer valid, which lawyers said was not true, and that if she did not sign a document saying she was leaving voluntarily, she would be forcibly deported and barred from entry for five years.The Iranian student signed. She had not been allowed to consult a lawyer and was permitted only three calls to relatives before her phone was confiscated and searched, said Ms. Corrales and Judy London, the directing attorney of the nonprofit Public Counsel’s Immigrants’ Rights Project, both of whom spoke with the woman’s relatives. On Saturday night, after a federal judge in Brooklyn ruled the government could not remove travelers who had arrived with valid visas, she was put on a plane back to Europe, her lawyers said. They declined to share her name out of concern for her safety.On Sunday morning, Ms. Corrales spoke to a supervisor from the customs agency who suggested that the Iranian student was still at the Los Angeles airport. The supervisor told Ms. Corrales that “they were waiting for orders from higher-ups in terms of how to enforce the injunction,” Ms. Corrales said, referring to the Brooklyn judge’s ruling.Some detainees dealt with the whiplash of plans changing by the hour. A group of five Iranians detained in New York told family members on Sunday morning that the government planned to put them on a 1:30 p.m. flight back to Turkey, said Melanie Zuch, a staff lawyer at the Urban Justice Center. Several hours later, some of them were told they would be allowed to stay.Vahideh Rasekhi, a graduate student at Stony Brook University on Long Island who was also detained at Kennedy Airport, said she and other detainees were also told they would be put on flights back out of the country, with agents promising only that if they held out a little longer, they might work out a way to keep them in the United States. Eventually they did, and shortly after 2:30 p.m., Ms. Rasekhi walked into Terminal 4 and was immediately surrounded by loved ones, lawyers and journalists.“I’m just so exhausted,” she said.She said that detainees had been given meals and water and that agents had even satisfied one person’s request for a lemon. Others gave accounts of more difficult conditions; one lawyer, Justin Orr, said some detainees had been given nothing but chocolate to eat.Mousa Ahmadi, 30, an Iranian graduate student at the New Jersey Institute of Technology, gave a long hug to his sister, Dr. Fahimeh Ahmadi, 40, after she was released from additional screening at Kennedy. The siblings had not seen each other for over three years.Dr. Ahmadi, a general practitioner in the Australian city of Gold Coast and a dual citizen of Australia and Iran, arrived for a long-planned visit without the siblings’ parents, who hold only Iranian passports and canceled their flights on Saturday.“My Mom said, ‘If they don’t let me in the country do you think I can see him even for a half hour?’” Dr. Ahmadi recalled. “She said, ‘Is there a window where I can see him?’”Lawyers at J.F.K. said that about half a dozen detainees were still in custody by late Sunday afternoon. The Los Angeles Police Department told lawyers there earlier on Sunday that about 40 people were being held.A federal judge in Alexandria, Va., on Saturday ordered government officials to give lawyers access to all legal permanent residents being detained at Dulles. But when lawyers showed border agents there the court order and requested access to detainees, a supervisor replied, “That’s not going to happen.”Matt Zeller, who runs No One Left Behind, a group that helps bring over Iraqis and Afghans who worked for the military, said he was told that there were 40 to 55 people who had been pulled aside by customs officers at Dulles on Sunday evening, and that at least some were Iraqis, although it was not clear if any had worked for the military. Detainees who had been released overnight — many of whom had green cards — spoke of hours of uncertainty as they waited to find out if they would be allowed into a country that they called home but that no longer seemed to want them.“This is not the America that I have lived in,” said one man who had been released, Seifollah Moradi, 34, a student from Columbia, Md., who has a green card. “We used to be treated with respect. This is the land of freedom.”Mr. Moradi had been held for six hours after returning from Tehran, where he was visiting his sick father.Protesters, who were lined up just past the set of one-way doors that separate the public areas of the Dulles arrival hall from the immigration and baggage claim areas for international flights, cheered loudly as Mr. Moradi came through the doors. They chanted, “Welcome to the U.S.A.,” and, “No hate, no fear, refugees are welcome here.”Mr. Moradi, his face drawn, hardly seemed to notice.
LONDON — Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain will meet President Trump on Friday in Washington for what could be an episode of “The Odd Couple”: The Stiff Headmistress meets the Great Salesman.Reserved, slightly awkward and serious, Mrs. May does not even have a Twitter account and does her best to remain silent on the key issues of the day, putting her head above water only when she must.Normally, American presidents go on to British leaders about “the special relationship” with a sort of patronizing politeness. But Mr. Trump has already put Mrs. May’s teeth on edge with his cheerful support for a British withdrawal from the European Union, commonly known as Brexit, which she opposed but must carry out.She has not appreciated his warm relationship with those like Nigel Farage, the former leader of the anti-immigrant U.K. Independence Party, who despises Mrs. May’s Conservative Party and who Mr. Trump has suggested would make a fine ambassador to the United States.Still, with Britain planning to leave the European Union in two years or so, Mrs. May needs to show Britons they have big friends out in the world beyond Europe, and the United States is already Britain’s single largest trading partner, not counting the European Union itself.Having put such store into being the first foreign leader to meet President Trump — Mr. Farage and Arron Banks, UKIP’s main financial backer, have met him several times since the election — Mrs. May is determined to put British-American relations on a more traditional track, as a government-to-government partnership.But hardly one of equals. Mrs. May “is coming as a supplicant and Trump seems to know this,” Jonathan Freedland, a columnist for The Guardian newspaper, said in an interview. On trade, “she’s eager to do a deal, like a house buyer who has already sold her house and has nowhere to live, and Trump, the real estate man, knows that.”Mrs. May, he said, “is the un-Trump.” Even in “the comparably unglitzy realm of British politics, she is unshowy,” he said. Compared with her predecessor, David Cameron, “she is pretty gray and pallid.” Still, he said, “history shows that personal chemistry does matter.”Christopher Meyer, a former British ambassador to Washington, said that “they look like the odd couple, but you never know — what’s required is a good working relationship.” John Major and Bill Clinton were also an odd couple, he said — “there was nothing there at all,” and Barack Obama and Gordon Brown never clicked.As a gift to Mr. Trump, Mrs. May is bringing a quaich (pronounced as quake), a two-handled Scottish drinking cup for whisky used to symbolize trust between the giver and recipient. Although intensely proud of his Scottish ancestry, and his Scottish golf courses, Mr. Trump is a teetotaler.The early meeting is important for Mrs. May, Mr. Meyer said, because “she can put in a British fix on the things that bother us — NATO, Putin, security, trade.”What has upset the British government is Mr. Trump’s “being nasty to NATO and nice to Putin,” Mr. Meyer said. But after calming words about NATO from Defense Secretary James N. Mattis, praise for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia is less problematic, he said. “But May would like to hear that from the horse’s mouth.”Mrs. May comes with an agenda, her spokeswoman, unidentified under traditional ground rules, said on Wednesday. Her goal is “to meet face to face and establish a personal relationship that leads to an effective, productive working relationship, not just in the interests of the U.K. and the U.S., but facing the many global challenges where we can work together.”Those include, the spokeswoman said, a start on talks for a bilateral trade deal post-Brexit, but also a “frank” discussion of the importance of the NATO alliance, which Mr. Trump has sometimes disparaged; of the European Union (ditto), even though Britain is leaving it; of Russia and its violations of international law in Crimea and eastern Ukraine, “where we’ve taken a strong position” and to which “we will remain committed.”Asked about Mr. Trump’s more sexist comments, Mrs. May has said that “some of the comments that Donald Trump has made in relation to women are unacceptable, some of those he himself has apologized for.”When she meets Mr. Trump, she said, “I think the biggest statement that will be made about the role of women is the fact that I will be there as a female prime minister.”Jeremy Shapiro, a former State Department official who is the director of research for the European Council on Foreign Relations, said that Mrs. May had to be careful because Mr. Trump almost never has fights with someone in the room.“Then you think that maybe this isn’t the person I thought he was, but 48 hours later he tweets something and disappoints you,” he said.Mrs. May may be aware that she is a supplicant, Mr. Shapiro said, “but Trump has her boxed up in her domestic politics — the problem of Farage, her need to control the Brexit wing of her party and her need to fashion a Brexit that won’t destroy her prime ministership.”Mr. Trump has made reference to the warm, vital relationship between President Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher. “But they were an actual team, they actually worked together, and Trump can’t stand that,” Mr. Shapiro said.Mr. Freedland said that the Reagan-Thatcher connection mattered, “because there was extra leeway and space for both of them, because of the personal relationship.”The new president, Mr. Shapiro suggested, will see Mrs. May’s desire to meet him first as a sign of weakness. “There’s no way Trump will say it that way face-to-face, but later it will come through in the relationship and in any U.S.-U.K. trade deal,” which he expects will not be particularly favorable to Britain.For Mr. Trump, he suggested, those leaders who do not ask for early meetings are the ones who show the most strength.Mr. Meyer, the former ambassador, is less concerned. “She’s completely aware of the dangers, and I think she might turn out to be a bit of an iron lady in some of what she says,” he said. “She won’t sound like a supplicant. But getting the balance right between saying all the oleaginous things about the special relationship and saying the things that matter to us will be the key.”Mrs. May also addressed Republicans in Philadelphia on Thursday at their annual retreat, which Mr. Trump also attended, before meeting him at the White House on Friday afternoon. Then she flies to Ankara, Turkey, for a meeting with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.On issues of trade, terrorism, migration, security, NATO and Cyprus, Mrs. May’s spokeswoman said, Turkey, too, “is such an important partner.”Mr. Trump has emphasized his affection for Britain and for Brexit by returning a bust of Winston Churchill to the Oval Office.Mr. Obama’s replacement of the bust by one of Martin Luther King Jr. became an issue in Britain before Brexit, with the current foreign secretary, Boris Johnson, claiming that Mr. Obama removed the Churchill bust because he “is a symbol of the part-Kenyan president’s ancestral dislike of the British Empire.”As a personal gesture after Christmas, Mrs. May sent Mr. Trump a copy of Churchill’s famous speech to the American people on Christmas Eve 1941, weeks after Japan’s attack on Pearl Harbor brought the United States into the war.In her letter, she told Mr. Trump that “the sentiment” Churchill had expressed — “of a sense of unity and fraternal association between the United Kingdom and United States — is just as true today as it has ever been.”Maybe. Maybe not.
The Talladega College Marching Tornadoes band took a lot of heat in the last few weeks for agreeing to perform in Donald J. Trump’s inaugural parade. But on Friday the band learned that political heat can also be quite lucrative.Talladega, a small, historically black college in Alabama, had been struggling to raise the $75,000 to send the band to Washington for the Jan. 20 inauguration.But after the college’s president, Billy C. Hawkins, appeared Thursday on “The O’Reilly Factor” on Fox News, describing how their choice had been criticized by many, donations from the show’s largely conservative audience flooded in.The band, which had raised about $50,000 on its GoFundMe page before Mr. Hawkins’s appearance on Fox, took in more than $333,000 by Friday evening.“Some alumni have come at me pretty hard; they don’t want the band to participate and say I am a disgrace to my race,” Mr. Hawkins told host Bill O’Reilly. “But this is about the students having an opportunity to participate in this national ceremony.”A number of artists, including prominent African-Americans, have said they would not perform at the inauguration of a president who built his political career leading the birther movement against President Obama, and on the campaign trail refused to disavow white supremacist supporters.No other historically black colleges are participating in the Trump inaugural events, and the Talladega band had been condemned in the African-American community and by many of the school’s alumni.But donors, giving mostly between $5 and $20, applauded the students’ courage and independence.“Ignore the hatred!” a woman who gave $100 said on the GoFundMe page. “Enjoy one of the greatest moments YOUR COUNTRY has to offer. Safe travels and GOD BLESS you all!!!”Other donors echoed the college’s assertion that the band’s participation was more a tribute to the civic celebration of the peaceful transfer of power than to the man assuming the presidency.“You have an excellent opportunity to expand your perceptions and use this as an occasion to become more well rounded,” a donor named Al Jenkins said. “Set the example for others to follow.”But some worry the participation, and the donations, may come at too high a price.The decision undermines the proud history of civil rights struggles at the college, which was founded by former slaves, said Carl Singley, a 1968 graduate and the former dean of the law school at Temple University. He wrote to the president and trustees, urging them to cancel.“Growing up, I had Klan night riders coming through my neighborhood. My freshman year we loaded up in a bus and went to the march on Selma. Racism is not theoretical to me,” Mr. Singley said in an interview. “The idea that a college that has long stood for civil rights would celebrate and normalize a man who got elected denigrating the first African-American president really is appalling.”He said he feared Mr. O’Reilly’s viewers who made donations were motivated mainly to try to prove Mr. Trump and his supporters were not racists, and had little interest in the fortunes of his small, financially struggling alma mater.On Friday, the school’s president said the 230 band members were excited to perform, and none had bowed out in protest. He added it was a difficult decision, but one he hoped would help the college with future federal funding.“If you don’t come to the table, you’re not going to be able to eat,” Mr. Hawkins said at a news conference. “Talladega College is going to be at the table.”
President Trump’s executive order barring millions of refugees and citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from the United States has spurred a surge in donations to humanitarian and rights groups like the American Civil Liberties Union.The A.C.L.U. has raised more than $24 million in online donations since Saturday, the first full day of the immigration ban, said Stephen Smith, a spokesman for the group. That is nearly seven times as much raised online in 2015, roughly $3.5 million, he added.Those donations came from at least 356,306 individual donors, and about two-thirds of those who gave money were believed to be first-time donors, said its executive director, Anthony D. Romero.“The response from the public has been remarkable,” Mr. Romero said. “It clearly shows that people are exercised over the proposed policies of Donald Trump.”The A.C.L.U. also gained 150,000 to 200,000 new members. It had 400,000 when Mr. Trump was elected in November, he said.“Clearly, this executive order has hit a live nerve with the American people,” Mr. Romero said.Thousands of protesters flooded airports across the country and took to the streets as word spread that immigrants and refugees were being blocked from entering the country, detained for hours by customs officials or taken off planes during the weekend, after Mr. Trump signed the executive order at 4:42 p.m. on Friday.The order, coming off a campaign promise, suspends the entry of all refugees for 120 days, bars Syrian refugees indefinitely, and prevents citizens of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen from entering the United States for 90 days.Critics noted that the order for “extreme vetting” was in effect a ban on Muslims, and did not target countries in which Mr. Trump has had business interests. The move stunned the global community, drawing criticism from business leaders, European heads of state and Christian leaders, though many Trump fans were unfazed.Besides the A.C.L.U., other groups have seen a rise in donations. The National Immigration Law Center, which joined the A.C.L.U. in a suit on behalf of two Iraqi refugees detained on Saturday, has raised $269,000 since the Trump order was signed, its executive director, Marielena Hincapie, said.Ms. Hincapie said donations had increased “across the board” and were now larger, more frequent and coming from more individual donors than her group had ever seen. A surge of individual donations after the election in November also boosted the law center’s annual budget to $7.5 million from $5.5 million, she added.Fund-raising for her organization was usually “slow and tedious work,” but not anymore, she said.“Trump’s election completely changed that and set us on a new path and has allowed us to be a stronger and more nimble organization,” Ms. Hincapie said.Humanitarian groups have seen a boost in donations, as well. Kal Penn, an actor and a former official in the White House Office of Public Engagement under President Barack Obama, started an online fund-raising appeal for the International Rescue Committee, which works in conflict and disaster zones around the world.Mr. Penn said the fund-raising had been inspired by an internet “troll” who told him he didn’t belong in the United States.“To the dude who said I don’t belong in America, I started a fund-raising page for Syrian refugees in your name,” Mr. Penn wrote on Twitter. That tweet was shared more than 35,000 times, and by Sunday, the site had raised over $390,000.The I.R.C. began its own fund-raising effort on Sunday with the goal of bringing in $5 million to help the organization respond to the needs of refugees in the United States. The group said it was the first time it had launched an appeal for people in the United States.The fund-raising efforts were promoted by at least one actress during the Screen Actors Guild Awards on Sunday night, Sarah Paulson, who urged people to donate to the A.C.L.U. “to protect the rights and liberties of people across this country.”Many of the winners, including Julia Louis-Dreyfus of TV’s “Veep” and Mahershala Ali of the film “Moonlight,” used their acceptance speeches to denounce  the policies of Mr. Trump.The A.C.L.U. sees itself as a leader in the opposition to Mr. Trump’s agenda. It lead the charge on Saturday with the lawsuit in New York that resulted in an emergency ruling by a federal judge blocking the deportation of detainees who had already landed here.The court order was the second legal action filed by the group against the Trump administration, which is little more than one week old.Even before Mr. Trump’s executive order on immigration, the A.C.L.U. had received more than $47 million from 400,000 donors, Mr. Romero said. The organization used the money — the largest surge in donations in its 97 year history, he said — to hire 200 staff members, primarily lawyers.“That is the Trump Effect,” Mr. Romero said. “Those 400,000 people, who donated to us, I did not go after them; they came to us. In fact, our website crashed we had so many donations, we could not handle it.”
It is getting closer to midnight.On Thursday, the group of scientists who orchestrate the Doomsday Clock, a symbolic instrument informing the public when the earth is facing imminent disaster, moved its minute hand from three to two and a half minutes before the final hour.It was the closest the clock had been to midnight since 1953, the year after the United States and the Soviet Union conducted competing tests of the hydrogen bomb.Though scientists decide on the clock’s position, it is not a scientific instrument, or even a physical one. The movement of its symbolic hands is decided upon by the Science and Security Board of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists. The organization introduced the clock on the cover of its June 1947 edition, placing it at seven minutes to midnight. Since then, it has moved closer to midnight and farther away, depending on the board’s conclusions.Thursday’s announcement was made by Rachel Bronson, the executive director and publisher of the bulletin. She was assisted by the theoretical physicist Lawrence Krauss, the climate scientist and meteorologist David Titley, and the former United States ambassador Thomas Pickering.Dr. Bronson, in a post-announcement interview, explained why the board had included the 30-second mark in the measurement. She said that it was an attention-catching signal that was meant to acknowledge “what a dangerous moment we’re in, and how important it is for people to take note.”“We’re so concerned about the rhetoric, and the lack of respect for expertise, that we moved it 30 seconds,” she said. “Rather than create panic, we’re hoping that this drives action.”In an op-ed for The New York Times, Dr. Titley and Dr. Krauss elaborated on their concerns, citing the increasing threats of nuclear weapons and climate change, as well as President Trump’s pledges to impede what they see as progress on both fronts, as reasons for moving the clock closer to midnight.“Never before has the Bulletin decided to advance the clock largely because of the statements of a single person,” they wrote. “But when that person is the new president of the United States, his words matter.”The board has held the responsibility for the clock’s movements since 1973, when the bulletin’s editor, Eugene Rabinowitch, died. Composed of scientists, and nuclear and climate experts, the board meets biannually to discuss where the clock’s hands should fall in light of world events.In the 1950s, the scientists feared nuclear annihilation, and since then, the board has begun to consider other existential threats, including climate change, compromised biosecurity and artificial intelligence.There were crises that the clock was not quick enough to take into account. The Cuban Missile Crisis, for instance, in 1962, did not change the hands of the clock, which at the time stood at seven minutes to midnight.An explanation on the Bulletin’s website accounts for this seeming lapse in timekeeping: “The Cuban Missile Crisis, for all its potential and ultimate destruction, only lasted a few weeks,” it says. “However, the lessons were quickly apparent when the United States and the Soviet Union installed the first hotline between the two capitals to improve communications, and, of course, negotiated the 1963 test ban treaty, ending all atmospheric nuclear testing.”The end of the Cold War came as a relief to those who had lived in fear of nuclear annihilation for decades, and the minute hand slowly moved away from danger. In 1990, it was at 10 minutes to midnight. The next year, it was a full 17 minutes away, at the relatively undisturbing time of 11:43.“The illusion that tens of thousands of nuclear weapons are a guarantor of national security has been stripped away,” the Bulletin said at the time.But over the next two decades the clock slowly ticked back. Conflict between India and Pakistan, both of whom staged nuclear weapons tests three weeks apart, had the clock at nine minutes to midnight in 1998. By 2007, fears about Iranian and North Korean nuclear capacity had pushed it to 11:55.By 2015, the scientists were back in a state of unmitigated concern, with the clock at three minutes to midnight, the closest it had been since 1984.“Unchecked climate change, global nuclear weapons modernizations, and outsized nuclear weapons arsenals pose extraordinary and undeniable threats to the continued existence of humanity,” the bulletin said. “World leaders have failed to act with the speed or on the scale required to protect citizens from potential catastrophe.”“These failures of political leadership endanger every person on Earth,” it added.
SAN FRANCISCO — Ryan Feit left behind his lucrative career at a private equity firm to chase the dream of crowdfunding.Mr. Feit, a 33-year-old graduate of the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, went to Washington several times to lobby for a new law that allowed small-time investors to buy stock in start-ups — and then set up one of the first websites that list companies trying to raise money.But what Mr. Feit has seen since he set up his site, SeedInvest, has dented his enthusiasm.Over the last two years, his company, which is based in New York, has turned away dozens of companies that wanted to raise money from investors on his site. Some of the companies had what seemed, to Mr. Feit, to be clear red flags for investors, but later showed up on other crowdfunding sites, where they have raised hundreds of thousands of dollars from unsophisticated investors.One of the early companies he rejected was shut down by regulators — who labeled it a fraud — after it raised $5 million from investors. And Mr. Feit expects it won’t be the last.“I’m legitimately concerned that a lot of people are going to be losing money,” Mr. Feit said. “Investing in start-ups is really risky, and it’s very different than buying a used couch. We definitely do not think you should treat it like Craigslist.”The promise that Mr. Feit initially saw in crowdfunding arrived with the 2012 Jumpstart Our Business Start-ups, or Jobs Act. The legislation opened the door to new methods of crowdfunding, promoted as a new way to lower the regulatory barriers that have prevented companies from raising money from ordinary people. Steve Case, the founder of AOL, and even the former president, Barack Obama, have praised the law.With the Jobs Act, companies could raise money on sites like Mr. Feit’s and offer investors an actual ownership stake, with the promise of financial returns — turning crowdfunding into a much more serious business, than, say Kickstarter.And there have been success stories. Companies that have raised money so far have included those that the Jobs Act was hoping to help — businesses far from Silicon Valley or lacking easy access to venture capital. A craft brewery in Austin, Tex., attracted $1 million from investors in just a few months, while an indoor farming start-up in Indiana has drawn over $600,000.Yet advocates of crowdfunding, like Mr. Feit, have been expressing concern about the low levels of compliance among many of the early companies that have raised money and the bad terms the companies have offered investors.“Even though a lot of people want to come to the party early, they may ruin the market if the market gets a reputation for being one where people don’t comply with the rules,” said Joan MacLeod Heminway, a law professor at the University of Tennessee. “There are certain issuers who are definitely engaging in practices that I would consider to be dangerous to a vibrant market.”Professor Heminway has been working with a company called CrowdCheck on a survey of compliance in the industry. CrowdCheck has found that almost none of the companies that have been listed so far are fully in compliance with even the basic rules set down by the Securities and Exchange Commission.About 40 percent of all companies, for example, did not get their financial results audited or certified, as is required by the rules, CrowdCheck found. The lower regulatory barriers for crowdfunding mean that the S.E.C. does not individually check whether companies are following the requirements.That job is left to the sites that list investments, like SeedInvest. Mr. Feit’s site lists only companies that are deemed by CrowdCheck to be fully compliant. But most sites have been less choosy.Chris Tyrrell, the chairman of a crowdfunding industry group, the Crowdfund Intermediary Regulatory Advocates, agreed that there was an “industry level risk” because crowdfunding sites are listing investments with a patina of a regulatory approval but little quality control.“Platforms are putting unvetted offerings out into the marketplace that could have a big blowup,” said Mr. Tyrrell, who is also the founder of the site OfferBoard.He and Mr. Feit have been pushing for a set of standards that crowdfunding sites will use when vetting companies seeking to raise funds.A spokeswoman for the S.E.C. said the agency had no comment on the level of compliance in the industry. But regulators appear to be paying some attention.In December, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority announced that it had shut down a Virginia-based site, uFundingPortal, that was listing potential investments without following the most basic terms of the law.The shutdown of uFunding, though, came only after the site had been live for months, with Finra’s approval, listing over a dozen investments that complied with almost none of the rules, according to CrowdCheck.Despite problems like these, the opportunity for companies to blow up and lose money for investors, has been quite small so far. The signature element of the crowdfunding law, which allows companies to sell stock to anyone on the internet, went into effect last May, and only about 200 companies have sought out investments to date. The law caps at $1 million the amount that a single company can raise from ordinary investors.But Congress is currently considering a change to the crowdfunding law that would make it easier for companies to raise money online.Sherwood Neiss, the founder of Crowdfund Capital Advisors, a consulting firm, said that he was confident that the crowd had enough wisdom to screen out the bad companies and those that were not providing enough information.As evidence for that, Mr. Neiss pointed to the dozen or so companies that tried to raise money on the uFunding site, without the disclosures required by law. None of the companies raised more than a few hundred dollars before uFunding was shut down.But the crowd did not manage to catch the problems with Ascenergy, a company in Nevada that raised $5 million on crowdfunding sites with a promise of creating an oil and gas business. The company used a less discussed provision of the Jobs Act that allowed it to raise more than $1 million from more sophisticated investors.When the S.E.C. shut down Ascenergy in 2015, the agency said the company did not appear to have any of the expertise or contacts in the oil industry that it had claimed in its online material.By the time Ascenergy was stopped, the company had already spent most of the millions of dollars it collected from 90 or so investors. Much of it was used for the personal expenses of its founder, paying for “fast-food restaurants, Apple stores and iTunes, dietary supplements and personal care products,” the S.E.C. said.A lawyer for Ascenergy did not respond to a request for comment.Mr. Feit, whose site had rejected Ascenergy, said that he was less worried about outright frauds and more concerned about companies that were unlikely to ever pay off and that were not giving investors enough information to judge them.Mr. Feit has been particularly worried about companies that have assigned themselves sky-high valuations that will make it hard for investors to ever make their money back. In several cases, companies that he rejected because of their high valuations have shown up on other sites with the same valuations.Mr. Feit and Mr. Tyrrell have been leading an effort through the Crowdfund Intermediary Regulatory Advocates to create a set of industry standards that all crowdfunding sites will adhere to when they vet potential investments, which will include a consideration of valuations and compliance.Mr. Feit and Mr. Tyrrell have led two conference calls about the potential standards with other crowdfunding sites, but the site that has hosted the majority of crowdfunding campaigns so far, Wefunder, has not responded to invitations to take part.Nick Tommarello, co-founder of Wefunder, said that his site had to be sure companies were following all the rules. But he said he did not think, as Mr. Feit does, that it is the place of crowdfunding sites like his to argue with companies over their proper value. That, he said, would defeat the purpose of crowdfunding.“It’s not my job to be a gatekeeper,” he said. “It’s my job to be sure everyone knows the risks they are taking and that they have all the information they need.”To help investors assess risks, Mr. Tommarello is preparing to introduce a function on Wefunder that will allow expert investors to weigh in with their analysis of companies listed on the site.Mr. Tommarello also noted that many small-time investors so far were viewing their investments more as donations to businesses they like, rather than as investments that will make money.Marc Leaf, a lawyer who has analyzed the early crowdfunding campaigns for the law firm Drinker Biddle, said that so far many companies were asking for investments on terms that few real venture capitalists would accept.“I would expect them to be very risky,” Mr. Leaf said. “The question is, Over time, will we see that there is a wisdom in the crowds or will we see that there is a madness in the crowds?”
SAN DIEGO — Bruce Arena’s second stint as coach of the United States national team began with the same result as his first: a 0-0 exhibition draw.The United States had few scoring chances Sunday against a young Serbia team, the first game for the Americans since Jurgen Klinsmann was fired in November after losing two World Cup qualifiers.“Clearly we would have liked to win the game today,” Arena said. “But for this time of the year, I was encouraged by a number of performances by our team.”Arena had won the M.L.S. Cup twice with D.C. United before he was hired by the national team in 1998. He opened with a tie against Australia and compiled a 71-30-29 record, the most victories in team history, and earned a place in the National Soccer Hall of Fame before he was fired after a first-round elimination at the 2006 World Cup. He returned to M.L.S. and led the Los Angeles Galaxy to three titles before the national team called again.Michael Bradley, the team captain, said the squad had grown during a three-week training camp, mostly with players based in the United States.“We feel good about the work that has gone in the last few weeks in terms of re-establishing what we need to be about and making sure when the big moments of the real games come around this year, that we have a real clear idea of who we are and the ways we can be successful,” he said.World Cup qualifying will resume after another exhibition against Jamaica on Friday in Chattanooga, Tenn. After having lost its first two games in the final round of the North and Central American and Caribbean region, the United States will host Honduras on March 24 in San Jose, Calif., and will play four days later at Panama.“These games are important, especially for our domestic players,” Arena said. “But the games that are going to count are the ones in March. That’s where you can look at me and can get really critical.”On Sunday at Qualcomm Stadium, the best scoring chances came just before the final whistle. Nick Rimando, who started in goal because Brad Guzan was among the Europe-based players not available and Tim Howard was recovering from leg surgery, made a diving parry on Lazar Jovanovic’s shot in the 89th minute. The United States countered, and Chris Pontius slid a shot just wide.Forward Jozy Altidore, 27, became the 17th American male player to make 100 international appearances. He is the second youngest to reach that mark, behind Landon Donovan.
Drew Barrymore, 41, has been a movie star all of her life. But these days, she is also wearing other hats, including running a makeup line called Flower and a namesake wine label with Carmel Road. And now she is again trying something new, playing a zombie in the Netflix dark comedy “Santa Clarita Diet,” out on Friday. When she isn’t dining on human flesh onscreen, she is probably seeking out the latest beauty find in real life. From her annual “barnacle removal” to her hair color O.C.D., Ms. Barrymore dishes all.I’m a compulsive face washer. For me, it’s three times a day, morning, noon and night. I like my cleansers baby mild. If I’m on the run, I grab a Cetaphil. Or I use one by Christine Chin. Then I have to have a toner, no matter what. Otherwise, I just break out. I have the Clinique acne clearing gel, or again, I use Christine Chin. I would use Sea Breeze. It doesn’t matter. I just have to tone.As you get older, you get melasma; you have kids; there’s sun damage. I like to pad my moisturizer with a Christine Chin brightening serum. I’m obsessed with her line. It’s the only thing I splurge on. I don’t have time to go for facials, so I haven’t seen her in years, but every couple of months, I’m buying the goods.I like Kate Somerville under-eye cream for dark circles.Then I definitely moisturize. The biggest game changer is, no question, Korean beauty. You get all this amazing moisturizing without the oil. I’ve used really expensive products and really inexpensive products, and most moisturizers break me out. The Korean masks have changed my life. The one I love the most is JayJun Baby Pure Shining Mask. When I take it off, I look like I got out of a facialist appointment.Every SPF breaks me out. There are only two I’ve ever found that don’t: the new La Roche-Posay — it’s called Clear Skin Dry Touch — and an SPF with powder by Colorescience. Sometimes I do the Dry Touch with the powder on top.I would say 90 percent of my life, I wear zero makeup. But I almost never leave the house without my Skincognito Stick Foundation from Flower, because it covers blue, red, brown, purple. And I can’t live without Aquaphor for my lips. I’m convinced it’s got me on a feeder. I just need more, more and more.I usually pick a lip color and stick with it for the month. Right now, I’m obsessed with Flower’s Sand Bar; it’s a matte color that comes in a squeeze-y tube. I do my lips and cheeks, and then whatever I have on my fingers, I just dot on my eyelids. It gives the eyes a sunset feel, a pinkish hue.Or I might use one of the Flower eye shadow palettes. I really like aubergine, because it makes my eyes greener. I also like to drag whatever is on the lid onto the bottom line so it feels like there’s a circular cohesion. I constantly mess up my brows. I’m not a good pencil drawer — I always overdo it. I look like Spock. So I use our Brow Master, which comes with a mascara wand. It’s user-friendly.I’m usually too lazy for mascara. But our Zoom-In mascara is one of my favorites because it’s really goopy gloppy. I call them carpet lashes, as in actual real fringy carpet. The name never really took off.I work with Tracey Cunningham on my color, and have for 20-something years. I have O.C.D. with my hair, and she puts up with me. I’m happiest with a light ombré. I like a dark base and then the perfect amount of highlights and lowlights. We call it children’s beach hair. It looks so beach-y, easy and effortless, but you’re literally going strand by strand. Tracey has the patience of a god.My favorite mask is the J. F. Lazartigue shea butter one. I glop it in, braid my hair and go to sleep, wake up and at some point take a shower. It completely brings back elasticity to the follicle. I also like Kérastase. It’s a great amazing brand you can find everywhere. And I just bought the Philip B Oud Royal conditioner. It looks like gold paint coming out of the tube.For shampoo, I love Living Proof Restore. That’s the only one that works for me. The other formulas and me do not get along.I’m a dirty hippie. I love patchouli; I just love it straight. Give me Venice Beach, 1982. I love cedar wood, too. I love woody accords — sandalwood, Nag Champa.Once a year I go to Dr. Roy Geronemus for a barnacle removal. He treats my face like the bow of a boat. I do a Clear & Brilliant laser every October. After the summer, I look, honestly, like I have dirt all over my face from the melasma. It was so bad after my kids. No matter how much sunscreen and how many hats, I have a lot of brown spots. He knows I’m not going to do anything beyond lasers, so he doesn’t even bother talking about it. He did suggest some fillers the last time I was there. I was like: “Not happening, Dr. G! Talk to me in 10 years.” I’m not putting anything in my face until it’s so bad I have nothing to lose.I go to AKT. My girl is Becky. We have a mantra, “Let’s do everything!” She basically just circuits me for an hour until I feel like I’m going to die. I’ve never been the world’s leading expert on fitness, but now that I’m a mom and in my 40s, exercise is helping me maintain sanity. After the two babies, and all those weight fluctuations, I got really depressed for a while and packed on the pounds. All of a sudden, I felt I just couldn’t carry the weight.California is diet central. Everything is clean and natural. I struggle in Manhattan. Ever since Postmates was invented, I’ve really struggled. It’s like a drug. I wish I had a Breathalyzer equivalent, where if I weigh a certain amount, I can order Postmates, and if I don’t, then I can’t order. Postmates has definitely sabotaged my life.
Drew Barrymore may have her own wine label, but it’s not her pride-and-joy rosé sloshing around in that smoothie cup in the black comedy “Santa Clarita Diet.”In her new Netflix series, debuting Friday, Feb. 3, Ms. Barrymore plays Sheila Hammond, a frumpy, low-libidinous California real estate agent who, after a vomiting fiasco to rival Linda Blair’s in “The Exorcist,” transforms into a sexed-up, carpe diem huntress with a taste for human flesh. Just toss biceps, glutes and maybe an ear into the blender and, voilà, a protein shake perfect for keeping her undead self ultra-peppy at open houses and in the bedroom.For Ms. Barrymore, venturing into a streaming show for the first time — this one created by Victor Fresco (“Better Off Ted”) and starring Timothy Olyphant as her husband, Joel — in the midst of personal turmoil required a leap of faith.“I was like: ‘Listen. I’m getting divorced, I’m 144 pounds, and I’m really not in a great place, so can I just be extremely frank with you?’” she recalled. “And I fell in love with Victor. When I was feeling heavy and nervous about things or conveying tough stuff I was going through, he made me feel light about it in a really safe way.”Ms. Barrymore, 41, who runs a production company as well as a cosmetics brand, is hard to pin down, thanks to a New York chapter in her life that keeps her “dizzyingly busy,” she said, cheerfully apologizing. But when you finally do get her talking, it’s like conversing with a long-lost friend, especially if she puts one of her “delicious little sausages” — her daughter Frankie, almost 3 — on the phone. (Her oldest daughter, Olive, is 4½.) These are edited excerpts from the conversation.A show about a flesh-devouring real estate agent. Why?I think it’s so fitting for 2017. Just give me something light, easy, digestible, watchable, fun, funny but, like, has balls and bite and backbone.What made you want to do a series?[Expletive] Victor Fresco’s writing. I was so upset when I put the script down because I liked it so much. And everything kept saying in my brain: “You can’t do this right now. This is the worst timing.” I hadn’t really been working because I wanted to be a mom and raise my kids. So the idea of going back into filmmaking seemed daunting as a parent.So how did you imagine Sheila’s metamorphosis from boring to bodacious?I was like: “Victor, here’s the deal: This woman has this awakening, and I need an awakening, so how about if we parallel our awakenings, and I kind of do this bent down Cro-Magnon evolutionary thing and by the end, she is erect. No prosthetics, no gimmicks, all attitudinal, wardrobe. I can go on this hard-core diet and, like, pluck a row of eyebrows and lighten the hair a little each episode.” And he’s looking at me like I’m crazy.And yet the transformation is pretty spectacular, down to those amazing Jimmy Choo boots.It goes to show you: Sometimes when you think something is the worst timing and there’s no way you’re going to be able to do it, it can become the thing that ultimately pulls you out of the darkness and brings you into the light.In the show, you eat people — and they look so realistic.This company, Tinsley, did all the bodies, and they just knocked it out of the park. We would literally think that someone was sitting there, and it was the dummy version of them. There was a lot of blood and guts and I, uh, ooh, yeah, God, sorry — I just got the shivers because I thought of this one foot I had to bite into, and I hit a bone or a nail or something on my tooth, and that just made me have that fingernails on the blackboard moment. Yeah, I constantly had weird stuff in my mouth.SZA has a new single called “Drew Barrymore.” Have you heard it?Nooo! No way. What do the lyrics say?She says she hopes it’s warm enough inside her. [Reads more lyrics.]O.K., great. I love it. It’s got sexual innuendos and tacos and mom jeans. I’m so in.You have 6.1 million followers on Instagram, where people can see you hanging out with Cameron Diaz, Nicole Richie and Gwyneth Paltrow like some Hollywood dream team. Do you ever feel competitive?Never a day in my life. In fact, I remember learning the lesson when I was very young that there is always enough room for everyone to have what they want and they need and they work for. I have only become the person I am proud of through my friendships, and I’ve chosen to follow people that I admire and think behave and react with grace. So God no. There’s enough to go around for everyone.
A lawsuit filed Monday accused three makers of insulin of conspiring to drive up the prices of their lifesaving drugs, harming patients who were being asked to pay for a growing share of their drug bills.The price of insulin has skyrocketed in recent years, with the three manufacturers — Sanofi, Novo Nordisk and Eli Lilly — raising the list prices of their products in near lock step, prompting outcry from patient groups and doctors who have pointed out that the rising prices appear to have little to do with increased production costs.The lawsuit, filed in federal court in Massachusetts, accuses the companies of exploiting the country’s opaque drug-pricing system in a way that benefits themselves and the intermediaries known as pharmacy benefit managers. It cites several examples of patients with diabetes who, unable to afford their insulin treatments, which can cost up to $900 a month, have resorted to injecting themselves with expired insulin or starving themselves to control their blood sugar. Some patients, the lawsuit said, intentionally allowed themselves to slip into diabetic ketoacidosis — a blood syndrome that can be fatal — to get insulin from hospital emergency rooms.A recent study in The Journal of the American Medical Association found that the price of insulin nearly tripled from 2002 to 2013.“People who have to pay out of pocket for insulin are paying enormous prices when they shouldn’t be,” said Steve Berman, a lawyer whose firm filed the suit on behalf of patients and is seeking to have it certified as a class action.In a statement, Sanofi said, “We strongly believe these allegations have no merit, and will defend against these claims.” Lilly said it had followed all laws, adding, “We adhere to the highest ethical standards.”A spokesman for Novo Nordisk said the company disagreed with the allegations in the suit and would defend itself. “At Novo Nordisk,” the company’s statement said, “we have a longstanding commitment to supporting patients’ access to our medicines.”The rising costs of drugs has led to several hearings in Congress and has drawn the attention of President Trump, who this month pledged to address the issue and said the industry was “getting away with murder.”In December, attorneys general in 20 states accused several generic drug makers, including two of the biggest — Teva Pharmaceuticals and Mylan — of engaging in a price-fixing scheme in which executives coordinated at informal gatherings and through phone calls and text messages. Federal investigators are also said to be looking at the issue of drug prices, and several companies, including Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, have said they have received subpoenas.Several companies have recently tried to head off criticism by taking actions to address rising prices. In December, Lilly said it would offer a 40 percent discount off the list price of its insulin product, Humalog, for patients who are forced to pay full price. And Novo Nordisk, which makes Novolog, has pledged to limit price increases in the American market to less than 10 percent in a year.The lawsuit filed Monday claimed that the three companies intentionally raised the list prices on their drugs to gain favorable treatment from pharmacy benefit managers, who work with health insurers and drug makers and help decide how a drug will be covered on a list of approved drugs.Insurers do not pay the list prices that the drug makers set. Instead, the pharmacy benefit managers negotiate a rebate that is returned to them. The benefit managers, in turn, take a slice of that rebate for themselves, although the amount of the rebate, and the amount they keep, is not made public.As a result, the drug manufacturers end up setting two prices for their drugs — the higher list price and the lower, secret, “real” price that insurers pay. The lawsuit claims that rather than competing with one another to offer a lower, “real” price to the insurers, the drug makers are vying to offer the best payment to the pharmacy benefit manager, which is why they have been raising the list price.When the list price goes up, many patients see their out-of-pocket costs rise, even if they have health insurance. That’s because plans increasingly carry high deductibles, which require patients to pay for their drug costs themselves until they hit a certain limit, as well as to pay a percentage of the list price even after their deductible is met.While Mr. Berman accused the benefit managers of being complicit, he said the lawsuit focused on the drug makers because “they are playing the game, and they are the ones who publish the list price.”Michael Carrier, an antitrust professor at Rutgers Law School, described the filing of the lawsuit as “big news” and said it was interesting because it turned its attention to the inner workings of the pharmacy benefit managers, which until now “have floated under the radar of sustained drug pricing scrutiny.”Brian Henry, a spokesman for Express Scripts, the nation’s largest pharmacy benefit manager, declined to comment on the lawsuit, but said, “Rebates don’t raise drug prices, drug makers raise drug prices.”
EVERYONE is familiar with this scenario: An app you once loved no longer brings the same joy. It’s gotten buggy over time, or an update transformed it to the point it became unusable.Chances are you thought about calling it quits. But after years of sharing your personal data with this app, you probably gave up and stayed in this stale relationship. You put up with the productivity-killing bugs and odd design changes because moving to a new, potentially better app felt harder than sticking with the bad one.Take Evernote, the note-taking app. After nearly a decade attracting millions of users, the company last year severely restricted free use of its software while raising prices for its plans by as much as 40 percent. This month, Evernote also released a redesign for its mobile app, which users complained was bloated with unnecessary features that have made note taking too complex.Even so, people have stuck with Evernote partly because taking their notes elsewhere is hardly easy.”We understand those kind of changes don’t make everyone happy,” said Greg Chiemingo, an Evernote spokesman. “In fact, we’ve seen continued growth of paying customers over the last two years.”People deserve better than this. Every day you stay with a bad app is time you could be spending with a superior product that will make life better. Here are my tips, based on interviews and personal experience, for a clean break.No app is perfect, but you have to draw the line somewhere. The problem is, you may be in such a rut that you can’t recognize the warning signs.An obvious one is when an app stops working reliably in a way that affects your life. For instance, I called it quits on Apple’s Calendar app when I was planning a dinner with friends last month and the software sent a calendar invite in Greenwich Mean Time rather than Pacific Standard Time. As a result, one person thought we were meeting on Saturday instead of Friday and didn’t show up. (It wasn’t the first time this happened, either.)Brian Fitzpatrick, a former manager at Google who led a team that developed tools to help people move their data to and from Google, said he dumps an app when it has stopped improving.“It’s still functioning, but you don’t see any changes in it for a very long time,” he said. “It’s sort of a zombie app, I would call it at that point.”Another sign that it’s time to move on is when you have nobody to talk to. Many popular apps for tasks like note taking, photo management and word processing are connected to social networks, or people you can share data with. If an app’s audience is a ghost town — like Yahoo’s photo-sharing app, Flickr, which sank in popularity after mobile photo-sharing services like Instagram emerged — then it’s probably time to leave.Yahoo did not immediately respond to a request for comment about Flickr.The hardest part of breaking up with an app is moving your data. So as a rule of thumb, save a backup copy of your data so that you can export it into a new app. Then carefully search for a better app to suit your needs.As a safety measure before changing apps, you should always keep extra copies of your data somewhere, whether it be in the cloud with a service like Dropbox or on a physical hard drive.Some companies deliberately make exporting your data difficult because they want you to stick around.“It’s sort of like moving into an apartment and finding out at the end of the lease you can’t take your furniture and your books with you,” Mr. Fitzpatrick said.Evernote is a good example. It includes an “Export notes” feature, but it only lets you export notes into two formats that are compatible with just a few other note-taking apps. Microsoft’s note-taking app OneNote, along with Apple’s Notes app, can easily import Evernote records. But if your app of choice is something else, such as Google Keep, you will have to manually paste your notes in the new app.Flickr is also difficult to part ways with. Getting out your photos requires lots of manual labor: You have to download all the photos, which can take a significant amount of time if you have thousands of high-resolution images, and then upload them to a new photo service.When companies don’t provide convenient tools to export your data, look elsewhere by doing a quick web search for solutions. There are plenty of people in the same boat as you, and chances are they have written scripts, or lightweight programs, to automatically pull out your data for you.If there is no convenient way to export your data, sometimes it doesn’t hurt to just take out what is most important to you. Perhaps you don’t need five-year-old notes from Evernote anymore, so you could just manually paste your latest memos and get a fresh start with a different app.On the bright side, you can learn a lot from a tough breakup with an app — which can be especially useful when looking for a replacement.The biggest lessons: Pick a tool that supports a wide array of formats instead of proprietary ones. And before you commit to a new app, make sure it is as easy to get out as it is to get in.Ditching Apple’s Calendar app was fairly easy. All my calendar data was already stored online and Apple’s app supports calendars from multiple online services including Google, Microsoft and Facebook. The key was finding an app that also supported those services but performed better.After testing several apps, I decided that Fantastical 2, a new app with a cleaner interface for getting a glance at calendar events, was the best one. Once Fantastical 2 was installed, I added my Google calendar accounts to load all my events into the app.Mr. Fitzpatrick recently decided to cut ties with Google Voice, the search giant’s calling and texting service, because it had remained unchanged for years. So he made backups of his call history, text messages and address books using Google Takeout, a web tool that he helped develop for easily downloading personal data stored on Google services. Then he switched to Signal, the encrypted messaging service, which has more modern features for messaging and phone calls, and disconnected his Google Voice.Google said it updated Google Voice on Monday with photo sharing and group messaging. But that was too late to keep people like Mr. Fitzpatrick.“A lot of it comes down to, How interested are you in change?” he said.
MANILA — When Lizel Torreras, 35, became pregnant with her third child, she mixed a tincture of bitter herbs and mahogany bark, a home remedy said to induce abortion. Her husband, who worked as a garbage scavenger, did not make enough money to buy a regular supply of birth control pills, much less raise another child.“With just two kids, we were already struggling,” she said. “The children were going to have a hard time. We might not have been able to send them to school.”But after three attempts, Ms. Torreras, a churchgoing Catholic, could not bring herself to drink the potion.Like millions of other women in the Philippines who have no access to contraception, Ms. Torreras had the baby. Then another one.The Philippine president, Rodrigo Duterte, signed an executive order this month calling for the full and immediate enforcement of a 2012 law that would give six million women like Ms. Torreras free government-distributed contraception and reproductive health services.Mr. Duterte portrayed the order as an antipoverty measure, with an official calling it “pro-life, pro-women, pro-children and pro-economic development.”But the order was also Mr. Duterte’s latest jab at the Roman Catholic Church, which wields significant power in the Philippines and has fought for years to keep the law from taking effect.Under the law, government agencies will provide modern family planning services, including free contraceptives and prenatal care to all women and families. The measure also mandates that sex education be taught in schools and that companies offer reproductive health services to their employees.But the law, which took more than 13 years to be passed by Congress before being signed into law in 2012, has yet to fully take effect, a testament to the power of the Catholic Church, anti-contraception groups and allied lawmakers.The church and other contraception opponents filed petitions with the Supreme Court, which issued several rulings blocking parts of the law. The court continues to prevent the Health Department from procuring, distributing or selling birth control implants, a ban that women’s health groups fear could be extended to the pill and other forms of hormonal birth control when existing certifications expire in 2018.Last year, Congress cut the Health Department’s budget for contraceptives, citing the court order halting the distribution of implants. Local agencies have administered the law differently in different districts, and sex education in particular has varied widely by school district. This month, Vicente Sotto III, the Senate majority leader, vowed to stop the distribution of condoms in high schools, arguing that they encouraged promiscuity.The battle is not over, but Mr. Duterte’s order provides clear guidance to government agencies and local health officials that they should uphold the law, eliminating some of the ambiguity the various court decisions have caused. And while the church still opposes the law in principle, it has scaled back its public campaign against it. Two archbishops, in interviews, acknowledged defeat.The Duterte administration says it can provide desperately needed services that are vital to lifting millions of people out of poverty. It estimates that there are six million women, two million of whom are poor, who do not have access to modern forms of contraception.Mr. Duterte’s order aims to achieve “zero unmet need for family planning” by 2018, helping to meet his goal of reducing the poverty rate to 14 percent by the end of his administration in 2022, down from the 2015 level of 21.6 percent.Sex education, advocates say, has been a failure. The Philippines is the only country in Asia where teenage pregnancy increased over the last two decades, according to the United Nations Population Fund.“A lot of the existing education in the Philippines is abstinence only, and this contributes to teenage pregnancy,” said Hope Basiao-Abella, project coordinator for Likhaan, a nongovernmental organization dedicated to women’s health.Stephanie Carmen, 15, is the kind of teenager Ms. Basiao-Abella has in mind. Ms. Carmen, who has a 1-month-old daughter, says she did not know that sex could result in pregnancy.She has learned the hard way, and says she will get an intrauterine device from Likhaan, which distributes free birth control using private funds and cooperation from the Health Department, as soon as she heals from the birth.“I don’t want any more children,” she said. “It hurts too much.”Mr. Duterte’s executive order is not his first clash with the church in his seven months in office.He has called the church “the most hypocritical institution,” accusing priests and bishops of graft, corruption and taking mistresses. He called Pope Francis a son of a whore (and later apologized), openly accused the church of pedophilia and claimed to have been sexually abused by a priest as a teenager.And he has accused the church of doing nothing to combat drugs, which he sees as the country’s biggest problem.For its part, the church has opposed his push to reinstate the death penalty and has begun to publicly criticize his antidrug campaign, which has left more than 3,600 people dead.“We will continue to oppose those because they are inhuman,” said Archbishop Ramón Argüelles of Lipa.He added, of Mr. Duterte, “I think whether he knows it or not, whenever we do anything bad, you are the tool of the devil. If you bring harm to others, you are the devil’s tool.”Priests across the Philippines have urged citizens to speak out against the killings in the drug campaign. In the days before Christmas, the Redemptorist Church of Baclaran in Manila mounted a photo exhibition of its victims, blood-soaked corpses strewn in the streets and grieving families, aimed to prick a sense of outrage among churchgoers.Fighting the church is not without risk. More than 80 percent of Filipinos identify as Catholic, and the church was instrumental in toppling two presidents, Ferdinand Marcos in 1986 and Joseph Estrada in 2001.But Mr. Duterte appears to be winning this fight. Rather than repelling Catholics with his sacrilegious outbursts, his willingness to confront the church has endeared him to Filipinos.According to a pair of 2016 polls by Pulse Asia, 86 percent of Filipinos support government-supported reproductive health services, and 55 percent want the administration to prioritize programs to combat poverty.While the church may have lost this battle, Archbishop Argüelles says Mr. Duterte has not won the war.“He said he was going to destroy the church,” the archbishop said. “The only thing I can tell him is that Hitler tried to do that, Bismarck tried to do that, Napoleon tried to do that. The church is still there, all these people are gone.”
CAIRO —  Egypt’s government placed itself directly at odds with Russian and Western allies on Monday, announcing that Egyptian investigators had found no evidence that the Russian airliner crash in Sinai on Oct. 31 was caused by terrorism.The government’s chief investigator, Ayman al-Muqaddam, said he had not received “any evidence of unlawful interference or terrorist activity” in connection with the crash, which occurred when a jetliner packed with Russian vacationers broke up in midair 23 minutes after takeoff from the Red Sea resort of Sharm el Sheikh, killing all 224 people on board.Although the statement offered ample detail about the investigation, such as the number of hours that investigators spent photographing the wreckage, and the number of helicopter trips they took to the remote site, it offered little explanation about the actual cause of the crash.Russian and Western officials have been far less hesitant, pointing to a bomb as the most likely explanation. The Islamic State, which has an affiliate in Sinai, has claimed responsibility and published a photograph of an improvised explosive device it says was used.Egypt is leading the multinational investigation into the crash, and its publication of the preliminary report on Monday met with a curt response from Russia. Both Russia and Britain have stopped all flights to Sharm el Sheikh until their concerns about security at the resort’s international airport are resolved.A Kremlin spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, declined to comment on the Egyptian report but pointedly reminded reporters that Russia’s security services had “come to the conclusion that it was a terrorist action.”From the start, the Egyptian-led investigation has been mired in a fog of secrecy, misinformation and contradictions.Apparently unwilling to publicly concede that terrorists may have penetrated such a sensitive target, Egyptian officials repeatedly ruled out a bomb as a possible cause. Pro-government news media outlets have consistently painted the assertions of terrorism as part of what they called a nefarious Western plot to weaken the president, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi.“All of these people are misleading us,” said Abdel Rahim Ali, a television host and frequent booster for Mr. Sisi, referring to critics of Monday’s vaguely worded report. “This is part of a conspiracy to divide the region, like what happened in Syria and Iraq.”Yet some Egyptian officials have indirectly acknowledged the possibility of a bomb, either through loud denunciations of terrorism or the announcement of new measures to secure the country’s airports.As tourists deserted Egypt after the Russian crash, Western officials identified a number of serious security flaws at the Sharm el Sheikh airport, including faulty scanning equipment and inattentive baggage checkers, all of which could have made it easier for militants to smuggle a bomb onto the plane.On Monday, Egyptian officials stressed their intention to hire foreign officials to improve security at airports across the country.Egypt’s handling of the crisis has drawn some comparisons with the 1999 crash off the coast of Massachusetts of EgyptAir 990, a flight from New York to Cairo. American officials, drawing on audio recordings from the cockpit, attributed the crash to a suicidal pilot who plunged the plane into the sea. Egyptian officials insisted the cause was mechanical failure.This time, though, the risks for Egypt are different. Egyptian officials seem caught between a desire to deny the possibility that the Islamic State’s Sinai affiliate could have hit such a sensitive target, and the pressing need to assuage the security concerns of foreign allies like Britain and Russia. Their tourist dollars constitute an important part of the faltering Egyptian economy.Egypt is suffering a shortage of foreign currency, and a ban on flights by Britain and Russia into Sharm el Sheikh is costing the country roughly $280 million a month, the tourism minister, Hisham Zaazou, said this month.Large tour operators in Europe that sell winter breaks in Egypt have diverted customers to other destinations such as Cyprus and the Canary Islands. Mr. Zaazou said he expected tourism revenue to drop by 15 percent in 2015, to $6.2 billion, because of the crisis.Russian officials initially denied Islamic State claims that it had felled the plane in retaliation for the Russia air campaign in Syria. But on Nov. 17 the Kremlin security chief blamed terrorism and offered a $50 million reward for information leading to the arrest of the perpetrators.President Vladimir V. Putin vowed to hunt down those responsible, although he did not blame any specific group.Now, the wreckage from the airplane, an Airbus A321, which had been strewn over a 10-mile radius in the Sinai Desert, has been moved to a secure location in Cairo for further examination by metallurgists and others specialists, Egyptian investigators said Monday. But the report did not explore assertions by Russian officials that they had discovered traces of explosives on portions of the wreckage.The Islamic State, promoting its claims of a major achievement, has published a photograph of what it identified as the explosive device used to bring down the plane: a bomb hidden in a Schweppes pineapple soda can, along with a detonator and a timer.Terrorism experts could not confirm the veracity of the photograph, but noted that a midair breakup, caused by a rapid decompression, would be consistent with a bomb. Other causes, such as mechanical failure, were still possible although now appear less likely.
RIO DE JANEIRO — The Brazilian police announced on Thursday that they were seeking the arrest of Eike Batista, the oil and mining tycoon who was once the country’s richest man, in an expansion of the vast corruption investigation that has ensnarled dozens of politicians and business leaders.Police officers went to Mr. Batista’s mansion in Rio de Janeiro on Thursday morning but did not find him there. Sérgio Bermudes, a lawyer for Mr. Batista, said his client was out of the country, either in the United States or the Cayman Islands, to seek access to blocked bank accounts.The arrest warrant could signal a new phase in the downfall of Mr. Batista, 60, whose global prominence had long been associated with Brazil’s booming economy. His personal wealth reached $34.5 billion as recently as 2012, but his fortunes, and those of Brazil, crashed amid falling global commodities prices.“Eike was a symbol of that moment of nationalist exaltation when the stars seemed to be aligning for Brazil,” said Gerson Moraes, a professor of ethics at Mackenzie Presbyterian University in the Brazilian city of Campinas. “But it turns out he was involved in the same old rotten schemes involving large corporations and the Brazilian state.”The brash industrialist, who had publicly proclaimed that he would become the world’s richest man, assembled a sprawling empire including mines, offshore oil fields, a port complex and even Rio’s landmark Hotel Glória. Mr. Batista cultivated close ties with government officials, and he received more than $4 billion in loans and investments from the national development bank.In 2008, Mr. Batista raised more than $3.6 billion in a public offering for his oil company, OGX, at a time when Brazil’s economic prospects looked bright. But the company sought bankruptcy protection in 2013 after producing a small fraction of the oil it had promised.This is not the first time Mr. Batista has faced legal troubles. In 2014, he went on trial on charges of insider trading and stock market manipulation, but the case was suspended in February 2015 after the judge presiding over his trial was filmed driving Mr. Batista’s seized Porsche.The judge was removed from the case. In November 2015, regulators barred Mr. Batista from serving as a corporate officer for five years.The new arrest warrant for Mr. Batista is an outgrowth of a multiyear inquiry into graft involving Petrobras, the state-owned oil company. Investigators are focusing on bribes paid to Sérgio Cabral, the former governor of Rio de Janeiro, where Petrobras is based.Mr. Cabral, who governed the state from 2007 to 2014, was arrested in November on suspicion that he and his wife pocketed millions of dollars in bribes from public works contracts.Federal prosecutors said in a statement that Mr. Batista had paid $16.5 million to Mr. Cabral in 2011 through offshore accounts in Panama and Uruguay. The tycoon sought to disguise the bribe as a deal involving the sale of a gold mine, the prosecutors said. “In a sophisticated way, Eike Batista repeatedly used the simulation of legal dealings for the payment and concealment of illicit amounts of money,” they said.The Federal Police, Brazil’s equivalent of the F.B.I., said in a statement that 80 officers had carried out nine arrest warrants, taken four people in for questioning and performed 22 searches in Thursday’s operation. Among those arrested was Flávio Godinho, a former executive at one of Mr. Batista’s companies who now holds a senior executive post at Flamengo, a soccer club in Rio.The police also said that they had discovered on Thursday that Mr. Batista, who holds dual citizenship in Brazil and Germany, may have traveled to New York on the evening of Jan. 24 on an American Airlines flight using his German passport.Mr. Bermudes said that a judge in Rio had issued a request for his client’s arrest on Jan. 13, raising questions as to how Mr. Batista had been able to leave the country if the authorities were planning to apprehend him.“The police are in full contact with Interpol to locate him, to verify if he effectively arrived in New York,” Tacio Muzzi, an officer with the Federal Police, told journalists. “It still can’t be categorically affirmed that there was the intention to flee. This is being rigorously investigated.”José Vagos, a federal prosecutor, said investigators had yet to determine why Mr. Batista had bribed Mr. Cabral, who held sway for years over important decisions regarding infrastructure projects in Rio, where much of Brazil’s oil industry is based.Mr. Batista was already known to shower attention and privileges on Mr. Cabral. In 2011, the tycoon came under scrutiny for granting the former governor and members of Mr. Cabral’s family the use of a private jet for jaunts around and outside Brazil.Another prosecutor, Eduardo El Hage, said Mr. Batista was suspected of crimes including bribery and money laundering.The effort to arrest Mr. Batista comes at a time when the entrepreneur was seeking to revive his fortune through a venture aimed at selling an upscale brand of toothpaste called Elysium.
The W.N.B.A. began the most-anticipated off-season in league history a bit early. Wednesday is the first day teams can sign free agents to contracts, but three trades were completed Monday, including a deal that sent one of the league’s biggest stars, Elena Delle Donne, to the Washington Mystics.Delle Donne, a 6-foot-5 forward and guard who has spent her career with the Chicago Sky, will join forces with another young talent, Emma Meesseman, in Mike Thibault’s high-octane offense, which is heavy on perimeter shooting. In exchange, the Sky will receive the 2015 All-Star center Stefanie Dolson; last season’s seventh overall pick, Kahleah Copper; and the second overall selection in this year’s draft.The Sky’s owner, Michael Alter, confirmed the Delle Donne trade Monday night.Delle Donne, 27, was the league’s most valuable player in 2015, and last season she finished second over all in points per game (21.5), fifth in blocks (1.5) and 11th in rebounds (7.0). She is the first W.N.B.A. star at her high level of play and prime age to switch teams.Delle Donne’s surprise announcement in December that she was looking to move on from the Sky, the team that drafted her in 2013, highlighted both the sometimes-difficult process that players need to navigate to earn the freedom to move within the league, and the ways in which players work to get around it.Delle Donne was set to become a restricted free agent, which meant that if a team offered to sign her, Chicago could simply match the offer and keep her. But Delle Donne said last month that she would be willing to sit out the 2017 season if the Sky did not work out a deal with her preferred team, and Alter responded by calling a Delle Donne trade “a strong possibility.”Delle Donne’s restricted free-agent status would have allowed the league’s 11 other teams to negotiate with her. The Mystics were considered a strong contender for her services, since they play just over an hour by train from Delle Donne’s home in Wilmington, Del., and were known to have interest.The Mystics also completed a three-team deal with the Seattle Storm and the Liberty earlier Monday. The Mystics received Seattle’s 2017 first- and second-round picks (the 6th and 18th selections over all). The Storm received center Carolyn Swords from the Liberty and Washington’s second-round pick (15th over all). The Liberty acquired guard Bria Hartley and center Kia Vaughn, both of whom had been with Washington.Delle Donne was among many impact players with the potential to switch teams this winter, but not all have unfettered freedom to pick a new team. While any W.N.B.A. player can play out her contract to reach restricted free agency, and then a year later become an unrestricted free agent, the unrestricted status comes with an asterisk: All W.N.B.A. teams have the ability to designate one so-called core player each season, and they can place that label on a player up to four times. The rule itself, along with how long it lasts, is a frequent complaint among players when the league’s collective bargaining agreement is discussed.Five teams used the core designation this off-season: the Liberty with shooting guard Tanisha Wright; the Atlanta Dream with the former scoring champion Angel McCoughtry; the Connecticut Sun with the veteran forward Camille Little; the Seattle Storm with the former All-Star Crystal Langhorne; and the Phoenix Mercury with forward DeWanna Bonner. Previously, the Los Angeles Sparks (Candace Parker) and Minnesota Lynx (Sylvia Fowles) also took advantage of the rule; both players signed multiyear contracts last year.Unrestricted free agents from those teams, as a result, are truly free. The biggest prize among this group is Kristi Toliver, who finished third in the league in 3-point shooting accuracy at 42.4 percent for a Sparks team that captured last season’s W.N.B.A. championship.For teams looking for perimeter help, Essence Carson and Alana Beard of the Sparks are also available, though Beard is expected to return to Los Angeles this year, along with Sun point guard Jasmine Thomas. Prominent inside players on the market include Indiana’s Erlana Larkins and Chicago’s Erika de Souza, both of whom finished in the top 10 in rebounding percentage last year; the 2015 All-Star Plenette Pierson of the Dallas Wings; and the 6-foot-5 center Markeisha Gatling, most recently of the Dream.
Vassar College, a leader in making elite college attendance more accessible for low-income students, is getting a new president.Elizabeth H. Bradley, 54, a professor of public health at Yale, will take over as leader of Vassar in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., this summer, the liberal arts college announced on Wednesday.She arrives at a moment when colleges and universities across the country are debating questions of access and identity on campus. Fundamentally, both are issues of diversity: How do you get different kinds of students onto one campus, and how do you truly serve them all once they arrive?“How do you manage a diverse community so it’s not divisive, so it’s community-building?” Dr. Bradley said in an interview. “I think Yale College has dealt with it, and Vassar College has dealt with it, and many colleges across the nation. I think the nation as a whole is dealing with that problem.”Anthony J. Friscia, a member of Vassar’s board of trustees and co-chairman of the committee that scouted its next president, said the college made a decision about 10 years ago to increase diversity on campus on several fronts. Under Dr. Bradley’s predecessor, Catharine Bond Hill, who left the college last year after a decade as its president, Vassar has been at the forefront of an effort by elite colleges to admit more low-income students. In 2015, The New York Times produced a College Access Index, ranking colleges based on factors like the percentage of their students who receive Pell grants, a form of federal student aid that goes to the poorest students. Vassar ranked first among private institutions.The percentage of minority students has also increased during that time. In the 2006-07 academic year, 22 percent of those enrolled were minority students, Vassar said. This year, 34 percent are.Dr. Hill left to become managing director at Ithaka S+R, an educational nonprofit that is among several organizations participating in an effort that Bloomberg Philanthropies announced in December called the American Talent Initiative, which is aimed at increasing the number of low- and moderate-income students enrolled at top colleges. Vassar was among the first colleges to sign on.But just getting a more diverse pool of students on campus is not enough, many colleges say.In the last few years, many colleges have seen protests over the treatment of racial minorities on campus. Students at Yale have fought hard for, among other things, renaming one of the university’s residential colleges, Calhoun, which was named after John C. Calhoun, a former student and a politician from South Carolina who was virulently in favor of slavery. So far, the name remains.Gender issues have also come to the forefront, as transgender students have increasingly come out on campuses and pushed for colleges to address their needs, said Genny Beemyn, director of the Stonewall Center at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, a resource group for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. Those might include the availability of gender-neutral bathrooms, whether hormones are covered by the campus health insurance or what name is used on a student’s records.Vassar’s history — it began as a women’s college and became coeducational in 1969 — puts it in an ideal position to deal with those issues, Dr. Bradley said. “This is a college that was founded originally for people who could not otherwise get this education — they happened to be women,” she said. “Today we have so many people who are unable to access this kind of high-quality education, and Vassar is a place that’s really attacking this.”Dr. Bradley continued: “That’s a great inspiration for me starting there. It has all the ingredients to really be a national model on how to do it.”Raised in New Britain, Conn., Dr. Bradley has an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago and a Ph.D. from Yale. She has worked to improve health care systems worldwide, including in China, Ethiopia and Rwanda. She has published more than 300 peer-reviewed papers and three books, including “The American Health Care Paradox: Why Spending More Is Getting Us Less.”While at Yale she was also the leader of Branford College, another of the university’s residential colleges (a title until recently known as “master”). Her first official day at Vassar will be July 1.Jonathan L. Chenette, dean of faculty at Vassar, has been interim president since Dr. Hill’s departure.
The election of Donald Trump and the accompanying rehabilitation of fossil fuels should have been, by all rights, devastating for Tesla Motors.Tesla is the top maker of all-electric autos, and it completed its merger with SolarCity, a leading manufacturer of solar energy panels, days after the presidential election.Elon Musk, the visionary founder of both companies, openly criticized Mr. Trump’s candidacy, saying on CNBC just before the vote that he was “not the right guy” for the job.Mr. Musk has pressed for a carbon tax to combat global warming, which Mr. Trump once dismissed as a Chinese hoax. The mere mention of a carbon tax inflames the old guard of the energy industry.Moreover, both Tesla and SolarCity benefit from federal subsidies. Robert E. Murray, a coal executive and Trump supporter, has called Mr. Musk “a fraud” for accepting $2 billion in government handouts.So why have Tesla shares surged since Mr. Trump’s election, closing this week within striking distance of a record high?Adam Jonas, a prominent automotive analyst at Morgan Stanley, upgraded Tesla stock to overweight last week, with a target price of $305 a share. (It was trading this week at about $255.)“When you look at the businesses Tesla is in, you see many areas of overlapping interest” with the Trump administration, Mr. Jonas told me. “To the extent the new administration prioritizes the creation of valuable, innovative high tech and manufacturing jobs, Tesla stands at the epicenter of that.”Shares in pure solar energy companies haven’t fared as well, but even they have now regained nearly all the ground they lost immediately after Mr. Trump’s victory.Solar investors “aren’t nearly as negative as they were the day after the election,” said Andrew Hughes, an alternative energy analyst for Credit Suisse.One reason for that shift seems to be a budding bromance between Mr. Trump and Mr. Musk. The president-elect invited Mr. Musk to Trump Tower in December as part of a group of technology executives and named him to his strategic and policy forum of business leaders.And Mr. Musk was with a group of manufacturing executives at a White House meeting this week at which, according to a participant, he broached the subject of a carbon tax. Surprisingly, Mr. Trump didn’t reject it out of hand.For his part, Mr. Musk this week endorsed Rex W. Tillerson, a pillar of the fossil fuel establishment as chief executive of Exxon Mobil, for secretary of state.Mr. Jonas said that the “strategic relationship between Tesla leadership and the new administration is an important development” in his decision to upgrade Tesla stock.“That Trump would be relying on Musk as an adviser has come as quite a surprise to many people,” Mr. Jonas said.A major fear of investors in solar power was that a Trump administration would end the federal subsidies so reviled by fossil fuel proponents. While that remains a concern, the most recent jobs data suggests that the subsidies have led to a surge in new well-paid jobs, exactly what the president has advocated.This month, the Energy Department noted in its annual energy and jobs report that “solar technologies, both photovoltaic and concentrated, employ almost 374,000 workers, or 43 percent of the electric power generation work force.” (Coal, by contrast, accounts for about 86,000 workers.)“The jobs data is a compelling argument in favor of the tax credits,” Mr. Hughes said.He noted that federal solar subsidies were set to expire anyway in a few years, a result of rare bipartisan cooperation in Congress. Mr. Musk has stressed that solar energy is close to reaching a scale where federal subsidies will no longer be needed.And Tesla is also expanding rapidly. Tesla employs 25,000 workers in the United States and could easily double that as it ramps up production for its new Model 3 and expands its Gigafactory, a lithium ion battery manufacturing operation in Nevada. “I don’t know what kind of multiplier you put on that, but it’s a significant boost to the economy,” Mr. Jonas said.Federal subsidies for electric vehicles will also end once a manufacturer hits 200,000 vehicles, a level Tesla may soon reach.Mr. Trump and Mr. Musk appear to have other areas of overlapping interest as well. Mr. Musk has broached the subject of the nation’s aging electricity transmission grid in conversations with Mr. Trump, according to an insider with knowledge of the discussions.Mr. Musk has advocated a so-called smart grid and has said that eventually Tesla will offer grid services, such as batteries that can be added to the grid and paired with solar and wind farms. This is the kind of high-impact infrastructure project that Mr. Trump has supported.And Tesla’s success could help fend off Chinese efforts to compete or even dominate in what could be an important piece of the car industry’s future.But the ultimate bond between the two may simply be that they both like to think big.As Joel Achenbach has reported in The Washington Post, Mr. Musk seems to have captured the new president’s imagination with his SpaceX project — which designs, manufactures and launches advanced rockets and spacecraft — and his fascination with transporting human life to other planets. A manned mission to Mars (a joint venture between NASA and SpaceX that would reduce the costs and risks to taxpayers) might well become Mr. Trump’s version of “landing a man on the moon and returning him safely to the Earth” within a decade, the challenge that President John F. Kennedy set before Congress in 1961.It’s still early in the Trump administration, and some (or all) of this may turn out to be wishful thinking by fans of Mr. Musk, Tesla investors, environmentalists and hopeful space colonists.“I want to believe that Trump won’t kill solar,” Mr. Hughes said. “But there’s still a lot of uncertainty. The big question: Will he take away the tax credits?”Still, there’s a growing sense that Mr. Trump and Tesla can not only coexist, but even thrive together. “You don’t have to be anti-electric to be pro-fossil fuel,” Mr. Jonas said.
Emma Tennant, who blended fantasy, science fiction and social satire in dozens of novels that explored the borderland between daylight and dreams, anatomized contemporary Britain and updated the works of Jane Austen and other classic writers in sequels that often had a feminist twist, died on Jan. 21 in London. She was 79.The cause was posterior cortical atrophy, a rare form of Alzheimer’s disease, her daughter Rose Dempsey said.An unusually prolific writer, Ms. Tennant produced dystopian fantasies like “The Time of the Crack” (1973), about a seismic fault under the Thames that destroys half of London, and comic novels of manners like “The Adventures of Robina, by Herself: Being the Memoirs of a Debutante at the Court of Queen Elizabeth II” (1986).In “Alice Fell” (1980), one of many novels in which she looked deeply into the psychology of modern women, she recast the myth of Persephone and Demeter as a mother’s search for her errant daughter in the urban underworld of Soho.Perhaps most provocatively, she wrote audacious sequels to famous English novels. In “Two Women of London: The Strange Case of Ms. Jekyll and Mrs. Hyde” (1989), she transformed Robert Louis Stevenson’s dark tale into a contemporary feminist parable. In two Jane Austen sequels, “Pemberley: Or, Pride and Prejudice Continued” (1993) and “An Unequal Marriage: Or, Pride and Prejudice Twenty Years Later” (1994), she risked the wrath of Janeites by imagining Elizabeth Bennet’s anxieties as the wife of Mr. Darcy and detailing the couple’s squabbles and estrangements.Writing in The Village Voice in 1990, the critic Gary Indiana called her work “a startling procession of novels unlike anything else being written in England: wildly imaginative, risk-taking books inspired by dreams, fairy tales, fables, science fiction and detective stories, informed by a wicked Swiftian vision of the U.K. in decline.”Emma Christina Tennant was born on Oct. 20, 1937, in London. Her father, Christopher Grey Tennant, was the second Baron of Glenconner, with a family fortune derived from a large chemical business. Her mother was the former Elizabeth Powell.Shortly before the outbreak of World War II, the family moved to the Glen, a mammoth Gothic folly implanted in a deep valley near Peebles, in the Scottish Borders. It was in the woods outside Emma Tennant’s childhood bedroom window that the 19th-century Scottish writer James Hogg had set his fairy tales, which enchanted Emma and led her to his novel “The Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner.” That book became a decisive influence on one of her most celebrated works, “The Bad Sister” (1978).When she was 9, the family returned to London, where she attended St. Paul’s Girls’ School. She left at 15. After attending a small finishing school in Oxford, studying languages and art history, she spent a year studying art at the Louvre.Ms. Tennant was presented at court in 1956, and a year later she married Sebastian Yorke, the son of the novelist Henry Green. The marriage ended in divorce, as did her marriages to Christopher Booker, a founder of the satirical weekly Private Eye, and the journalist Alexander Cockburn.In addition to her daughter Rose, she is survived by her husband, Tim Owens; a son, the writer Matthew Yorke; another daughter, Daisy Cockburn; a sister, Catherine Tennant; a brother, Toby; and three grandchildren.Under the pen name Catherine Aydy, Ms. Tennant published “The Color of Rain,” a dark satire about the British upper classes, in 1963. Her publishers submitted it for the Prix Formentor, awarded yearly in Majorca, Spain. The chairman of the judging panel, the Italian novelist Alberto Moravia, denounced it as a prime specimen of the decadence of the British novel.Ms. Tennant found her footing in the early 1970s after discovering writers whose anti-realist qualities dovetailed with her own love of myth, magic and dream. In 1980 she told the reference work World Authors:“It became gradually clear to me, after meeting British science-fiction writers — J. G. Ballard amongst them — that a way to the center for me lay in the fantastic; and despite the very deep loathing of the British literary establishment for any writing that could be so described, I set out to read as many Latin American and Central European writers as possible, finding confirmation in such works as Bulgakov’s ‘The Master and Margarita’ and the writing of Bruno Schulz that there was nothing inherently ‘silly,’ as the English would have it, in showing the world through lenses both fantastic and real: that the English were indeed limited by a creative feebleness and love of irony which left them out of the most interesting writing, all going on in other parts of the world.”This new orientation was reflected in “The Time of the Crack” and the two novels that followed, “The Last of the Country House Murders” (1974) and “Hotel de Dream” (1976).In 1975 she founded the influential literary journal Bananas, which published new work by Mr. Ballard, Beryl Bainbridge, Angela Carter and the science-fiction writer Michael Moorcock. She served as editor for three years.Her many novels also included “Queen of Stones” (1982), a feminist retelling of William Golding’s “Lord of the Flies”; “Faustine” (1991), about a woman in her late 40s who makes a pact with the Devil to return to her 20s; and “The Beautiful Child” (2010), a ghost story revolving around an unfinished manuscript by Henry James.In 1995, the estate of Margaret Mitchell chose her to write a second sequel to “Gone With the Wind.” (The first, “Scarlett,” by Alexandra Ripley, was published in 1991.) St. Martin’s Press paid $4.5 million to publish it but rejected Ms. Tennant’s first draft of the novel, “Tara” — so forcefully that the project collapsed.“I’ve never had this experience before, where I put heart and soul into a book and it wasn’t published,” Ms. Tennant told The New York Times. “The most awful feeling was just seeing the book sitting there like a lump.”Ms. Tennant wrote three volumes of memoirs about her socially and politically well-connected family — “Strangers: A Family Romance” (1998), “Girlitude: A Memoir of the 50s and 60s” (1999) and “Waiting for Princess Margaret” (2009) — as well as a memoir about her love affair in the late 1970s with the poet Ted Hughes, “Burnt Diaries” (1999).
Emmanuelle Riva, whose performance in the antiwar film “Hiroshima Mon Amour” in 1959 placed her at the center of the French New Wave — and who, more than 50 years later, became the oldest person nominated for an Academy Award for best lead actor or actress, as a woman debilitated by strokes in “Amour” — died on Friday in Paris. She was 89.The cause was cancer, her agent, Anne Alvares Correa, said.“Hiroshima Mon Amour,” directed by Alain Resnais and written by Marguerite Duras, was one of the first internationally acclaimed films to emerge from the French New Wave, a movement that rejected classic cinematic storytelling with youthful irreverence. In the United States it was an art-house hit.“With his first feature film,” Andrew Sarris wrote in The Village Voice, “Resnais has made the most important contribution to realizable film aesthetics since ‘Citizen Kane.’”The movie opens with Ms. Riva, playing an actress who has come to Hiroshima to make a film promoting peace, and her co-star, Eiji Okada, as an architect, in a lovers’ embrace. Their faces are unseen and their limbs are covered in what appears to be ash, as if from a nuclear blast, that is then washed away.They speak in voice-overs. Ms. Riva says she has seen evidence of the bomb’s effects in a hospital and a museum. But Mr. Okada rebukes her, over and over: “You saw nothing in Hiroshima. Nothing.”She reveals tortured memories of an affair she had during World War II in her native Nevers, France, with a German soldier. Her living and dead lovers become linked — as do the horrors of Nevers and Hiroshima.Looking back at it nearly a half-century later, the critic Michael Koresky said that Ms. Riva’s performance was “responsible for much of the emotional heft” of the film and that “the range of feelings that run across Riva’s face is perhaps the most unforgettable element.”Ms. Riva sensed at the time that “Hiroshima Mon Amour” might turn out to be the creative peak of a film career that had just begun.“I think I was particularly blessed because I put my trust in Alain Resnais,” she told an interviewer at the Cannes Film Festival in 1959, when the film was shown there. But, she added: “I feel like I might be a disappointment after this, because Resnais pushed me to excel. He made me reach certain heights.”Paulette Germaine Riva was born on Feb. 24, 1927, in Chenimenil, in northeastern France, and grew up in nearby Remiremont. Her father, René Alfred Riva, was a sign writer; her mother, the former Jeanne Fernande Nourdin, was a seamstress. An only child, she never married and had no children.Ms. Riva had wanted to act since she was a child, she later said, but felt that her ambition was circumscribed by her family’s modest life in a rural village. She began performing in regional theater, but also trained as a seamstress before she entered acting school in Paris in her mid-20s.“If I had failed, I’d be dead,” she told the French newspaper Libération. “I did not have a second to lose.”Her first role on the Paris stage was in Shaw’s “Arms and the Man” in 1954. Five years later, Mr. Resnais cast her as the nameless actress in “Hiroshima Mon Amour.”In the decades that followed, Ms. Riva toggled from movies to stage work to television series. She distinguished herself in movies like “Léon Morin, Priest” (1961), but she never had another role as sensational as the one she played in “Hiroshima Mon Amour.”“I refused as many offers as I accepted,” she told The New York Times in 2013. “I refused commercial roles. But it was wrong, I have been too extreme, and I don’t say it was good.”Then the Austrian director Michael Haneke — who told The Times in 2012 that as a young man he had been “captivated” by Ms. Riva’s performance in “Hiroshima Mon Amour” — asked her to audition for “Amour.”“Clearly he wanted to see me again after all these years,” she told The Guardian in 2013. “I was in his head, perhaps.”In “Amour,” Ms. Riva played Anne, a retired music teacher who is failing mentally and physically. Her husband, Georges, played by Jean-Louis Trintignant, devotedly cares for her. Writing in The Times, Manohla Dargis called them “two titans of French cinema.”In an interview with the entertainment news website TheWrap.com, she said that Mr. Haneke had only one direction for her as she worked with Mr. Trintignant.“We were doing a scene,” she recalled, “and he said, ‘It’s very nice — very sweet, very tender — but it’s too tender. No sentimentality. From here on in, no sentimentality.’ This was the key that opened the horizon of the film. Once I heard that, it became much more clear.”“Amour” won the Academy Award for best foreign-language film. Ms. Riva did not win the Oscar for best actress — she lost to Jennifer Lawrence for “Silver Linings Playbook” — but she won the César, the French version of the Oscar, and a Bafta film award, from the British Academy of Film and Television Arts, for the role.After the release of “Amour,” she said in an interview with The Times, she received a letter from a friend who wondered how she had aged “so tragically in front of our eyes.” She explained:  “Anne is another person, it isn’t me. It is a journey into someone else, someone I’m not.”
BERLIN — Reflecting mounting European anger and astonishment at President Trump, several countries on Sunday rejected — sometimes in blunt terms — his ban  on all refugees and the citizens of seven Muslim-majority  countries entering the United States.The spokesman for Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said there was no justification for the policy — not even the fight against terrorism — of refusing to admit refugees fleeing war. Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain revised her stance on the American directive to take a harder line, while Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni of Italy said that Mr. Trump’s approach ran counter to basic European principles.Steffen Seibert, a spokesman for Ms. Merkel, said in a statement that she had reminded Mr. Trump during their telephone conversation on Saturday that the Geneva Convention on refugees obliges all member states to take in those fleeing war.The chancellor “is convinced that the resolute fight against terrorism does not justify blanket suspicion on grounds of origin or belief,” Mr. Seibert said, a day after Ms. Merkel and Mr. Trump talked at length for the first time since his inauguration on Jan. 20.In London, after Mrs. May’s response to a question about the issue on Saturday at a news conference in Turkey prompted sharp criticism of her unwillingness to criticize Mr. Trump, her spokesman said that the British government did “not agree with this kind of approach and it is not one we will be taking.”Mr. Gentilioni, whose country took in more than 180,000 migrants last year, did not mention Mr. Trump or the United States by name in a post on Twitter, but there seemed little doubt about what he was referring to. “Italy is anchored in its values,” he wrote on Sunday. “Open society, pluralism, no discrimination. They are the pillars of Europe.”The comments came a day after President François Hollande of France, who unlike Ms. Merkel is not running for re-election this year, said he had reminded Mr. Trump of his “conviction that the ongoing fight to defend our democracy will be effective only if we sign up to respect to the founding principles and, in particular, the welcoming of refugees.”Mr. Seibert said Ms. Merkel had explained her stance to Mr. Trump, even though statements released in Washington and Berlin hours after their conversation made no mention of Ms. Merkel’s views on the executive order that the president signed on Friday.Instead, in notably spare tones, the statements suggested that the two had agreed to cooperate in reinforcing NATO and a trans-Atlantic alliance that Mr. Trump has questioned, most recently in an interview with European newspapers days before his inauguration, in which he called the alliance “obsolete.”Ms. Merkel reacted coolly to Mr. Trump’s election in November, offering close cooperation only on the basis of shared values such as equal treatment for all, with no discrimination on the basis of faith, political views, sexual orientation or ethnic origin. Her stance on Mr. Trump’s executive order was in line with that approach.Ms. Merkel, who grew up in Communist East Germany and is the daughter of a Lutheran pastor, has invoked that background in justifying her decision to allow more than one million asylum seekers, many of them Muslims, into Germany since 2015.In his interview with Germany’s Bild newspaper and The Times of London, Mr. Trump was strongly critical of Ms. Merkel’s refugee policy. “I think she made one very catastrophic mistake, and that was taking all of these illegals, you know, taking all of the people from wherever they come from,” he said. “And nobody even knows where they come from.”Theinflux of refugees has hurt the chancellor politically and aided the rise of a far-right party that has ridden anti-migrant and anti-Muslim sentiment to capture seats in 10 of Germany’s 16 state legislatures.The party, Alternative for Germany, seems certain to enter the federal parliament after the Sept. 24 elections, which will follow crucial votes in the Netherlands and France this spring and help determine whether a weakened Europe can maintain its unity.A spokesman for Mrs. May, who was not identified by name under traditional ground rules, said that if Mr. Trump’s policy affects British citizens, as it will for people who are citizens of two countries, “then clearly we will make representations to the U.S. government about that.”The comments followed a backlash from politicians and on social media, after comments from Mrs. May in a news conference in Ankara, the Turkish capital. She had flown there she after becoming the first foreign leader to meet with the new American president, a source of pride for Downing Street.After meeting Turkish leaders, she was asked several times by British journalists about her reaction to the executive order. She refused to condemn the policy and finally said — after reporters shouted, “Answer the question!” — that “the United States is responsible for the United States’ policy on refugees. The United Kingdom is responsible for the United Kingdom’s policy on refugees.”Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson took a harder line in a Twitter post on Sunday. “We will protect the rights and freedoms of UK nationals home and abroad,” he wrote. “Divisive and wrong to stigmatize because of nationality.”One person likely to be affected is a British sports hero, the Olympic champion runner Mo Farah. He was born in Somalia and came to Britain at age 8, and he may not be able to return to his training base and home in Oregon, where his family lives.The opposition Labour Party leader, Jeremy Corbyn, posted a photograph of Mrs. May and Mr. Trump on Twitter, writing: “hand in hand with the man who banned Mo Farah & Tory MP. Yet she remains silent.”“It’s deeply troubling that I will have to tell my children that Daddy might not be able to come home,” Mr. Farah wrote on Facebook, “to explain why the President has introduced a policy that comes from a place of ignorance and prejudice.”Mr. Trump’s executive order was preceded on Friday by an emotional appeal from the mayor of Berlin, related to another proposal by Mr. Trump that has proved polarizing — the construction of a wall along the United States border with Mexico.“Berlin, the city of Europe’s division, the city of Europe’s freedom, cannot silently look on as a country sets about building a new wall,” the mayor, Michael Müller, said in a statement.“We Berliners know better than most the pain caused when a whole continent is split by barbed wire and walls. Our division destroyed the prospects of millions. But ultimately, we, the people, overcame it,” he wrote, recalling the fall of the Berlin Wall in November 1989.Mr. Müller took the unusual step of invoking another United States president, Ronald Reagan, in appealing to Mr. Trump to tear down walls rather than build new ones.
On a cool, damp night last weekend, Lauren Duca, 25, sat at a corner banquette at the Red Cat in Chelsea, sipping white wine. She had spent her day trekking around the city, getting a blowout in Chinatown, meeting some friends for brunch in the West Village and stopping home in Brooklyn for some relaxation time with her dog, a Shiba Inu puppy named Demi.Ms. Duca was a little nervous. “I need to slow down my heart rate,” she said. She took a deep breath, closed her eyes and raised her glass. She had a big night ahead. She would be appearing on stage as a guest monologuist for the improvisation company Upright Citizens Brigade. Previous guest monologuists at U.C.B. have included Gloria Steinem, Amy Schumer and the hosts of the “2 Dope Queens” podcast, Jessica Williams and Phoebe Robinson. So, you know, no pressure.It might surprise some that Ms. Duca — who in the past two months has gone from a relatively obscure freelance journalist to a national newsmaker — is susceptible to the jitters. On Dec. 10, Teen Vogue published a scorched-earth opinion piece she wrote titled “Donald Trump Is Gaslighting America” on its website. It went viral.On Dec. 23, she appeared on “Tucker Carlson Tonight” on Fox News and managed to get these words in edgewise: “You’re actually being a partisan hack who’s just attacking me ad nauseam and not even allowing me to speak.” The video clip went viral.On Jan. 8, she complained to Twitter that Martin Shkreli, the so-called Pharma Bro and a professed supporter of President Trump, was harassing her after she declined his invitation, delivered via private message, to be his date at the inauguration. In a public tweet, she said, “I’d rather eat my own organs.” Mr. Shkreli then updated his profile picture with a Photoshopped image of his face superimposed over Ms. Duca’s husband’s, in a photo of the couple snuggling. Mr. Shkreli was suspended indefinitely from Twitter. News of this went viral as well.“There’s been a lot of crazy things like this happening,” she said.Before the presidential election, Ms. Duca was writing for publications like Teen Vogue, focusing mostly on pop-culture fixtures like Kylie Jenner and her unexpected passion for cheap ramen noodles.After the election, something changed. “It felt like nothing I was working on mattered anymore,” she said.So she started writing about Mr. Trump. The Teen Vogue piece accused the then president-elect of “gaslighting,” a type of psychological manipulation intended to make people doubt their own perceptions. (The term comes from a 1938 play by Patrick Hamilton called “Gaslight,” in which a man tries to persuade his wife that she is going insane.)She wrote: “Trump is not going to stop playing with the burner until America realizes that the temperature is too high. It’s on every single one of us to stop pretending it’s always been so hot in here.”With close to 1.3 million hits, the piece became the most-read article on the Teen Vogue site in 2016.Her new purpose has brought a lot of new opportunity, like the invitation from U.C.B. She arrived at the theater on West 26th Street a few minutes early, wearing a long black dress, patterned tights and lace-up boots. She wove past the packed crowd lining up for $2 Pabst Blue Ribbon cans and slipped backstage.Shannon O’Neill, the artistic director of U.C.B. New York, and Tami Sagher, a cast member and former writer for “30 Rock,” warmed up the crowd and then welcomed Ms. Duca to the stage. Ms. Sagher called her “my hero” (adding an unprintable word before “hero”) and urged the audience to check out Teen Vogue for its unvarnished political coverage. Ms. O’Neill then asked for suggestions for a word that Ms. Duca could riff on to start the show.“Blooper!” someone in the crowd called out.“Ah, O.K.,” Ms. Duca said, haltingly. “‘Blooper’ makes me think of messing up, which is something I am terrified of doing now.” The stakes are higher, she said, because she has a lot more Twitter followers now than she did six weeks ago — 142,000 more to be exact. And more followers, she said, means more people are parsing everything she does.“I could tweet the word peanut and they would be like, ‘Don’t you know that, like, my son’” is allergic, she said, clutching her iPhone in her right hand like a security blanket. The crowd laughed. She seemed to get more comfortable.Being internet-famous comes with its own strange addiction to the feedback loop. During intermission, Ms. Duca couldn’t resist sneaking a peek at her phone, noticing a  shout-out on Twitter from a supportive audience member. Ms. Duca hit the retweet button and returned to the stage.Her final anecdote was the most personal, and generated the loudest response. Reacting to the audience prompt “blue bloods,” Ms. Duca went straight to her parents, conservative Republicans who live in New Jersey, voted for Mr. Trump and enjoy watching “Blue Bloods,” the CBS police drama starring Tom Selleck.“They have no idea where I came from,” she said.After Hillary Clinton’s defeat, Ms. Duca told the audience how she had asked her mother, a physical therapist, to read her political writing, hoping it would sway her opinion.The elder Ms. Duca praised her daughter, telling her she was “like the Michael Jordan of writing.” But even maternal pride couldn’t stop her from taking a jab at Mrs. Clinton. “You have to admit that we really didn’t know what happened with her emails,” she said.“So,” Ms. Duca said, ending her monologue, “I can’t be that good of a writer.”
German prosecutors said for the first time on Friday that they had evidence that Volkswagen’s former chief executive took part in the company’s emissions fraud, significantly raising the stakes for the carmaker and undercutting its attempts to put the scandal behind it.Martin Winterkorn, who resigned as chief executive in September 2015 after the emissions cheating came to light, is under investigation for fraud and false advertising, according to prosecutors in Braunschweig, Germany. The authorities also increased the number of people under investigation and portrayed a far more extensive conspiracy than before.Mr. Winterkorn and Hans Dieter Pötsch, the Volkswagen supervisory board chairman, were already under investigation for violations of securities laws. But the new fraud allegations suggest that prosecutors suspect Mr. Winterkorn had a more active role than he or the company have acknowledged.The new allegations also point to a larger number of conspirators, and they further undermine Volkswagen’s attempts to portray the fraud, in which its diesel vehicles emitted lower levels of pollutants in lab testing than in the real world, as the work of executives and engineers below the level of its board. The assertions leave the automaker even more vulnerable to lawsuits by shareholders in the United States and Europe, who are seeking billions of dollars in damages.Prosecutors said in a statement that the number of people officially under investigation had risen to 37 from 21, after police searches of dozens of homes and offices in and around Wolfsburg, Germany, where Volkswagen has its headquarters.The latest developments signal that Volkswagen is still far from able to move beyond a scandal that has contributed to a loss of market share in Europe and to slumping sales in the United States.This month, Volkswagen pleaded guilty to violations of the Clean Air Act in a settlement with the United States government that also includes a $4.3 billion fine. In a detailed admission of wrongdoing, Volkswagen avoided implicating any members of the management board.But investigators in Braunschweig said in a statement on Friday that there was evidence that Mr. Winterkorn “could have known of the manipulated software and its effect sooner than he has maintained.”Just last week, Mr. Winterkorn told a committee of the German Parliament that he had heard of the illegal software only days before the scandal came to light, and in a statement on Friday he stood by that testimony.Although Mr. Winterkorn has resigned, the upper layer of management at Volkswagen remains dominated by longtime insiders, including Matthias Müller, the current chief executive. Volkswagen, known for its insular corporate culture, has been reluctant to appoint outsiders to top positions.One of few people from outside the company to have joined the management board since the scandal broke is leaving amid signs of friction over her role. Christine Hohmann-Dennhardt, a former judge in Germany’s highest court, had been brought in to overhaul Volkswagen’s system for preventing wrongdoing.Volkswagen said in a statement on Thursday that Ms. Hohmann-Dennhardt would be leaving, in part because she and the company differed in their “understanding of responsibilities and future operating structures within the function she leads.”United States authorities have indicted six former and current Volkswagen employees on charges of conspiring to defraud the government by programming pollution controls in diesel motors to function properly only when software detected that a test was underway.Five of the six suspects are in Germany, and one  is in jail in Miami. The likelihood of more indictments may be constraining Volkswagen executives’ ability to travel outside Germany, where they are less likely to be extradited to the United States.The company sent a much smaller contingent of executives to the North American International Auto Show in Detroit this month than usual, but said it was because of a reassessment of the resources it commits to car shows.
Q. I just got a Facebook friend request from someone who has been dead for at least a year. What is going on?A. Your existing contacts and Facebook’s algorithms sometimes send suggestions for potential new friends based on mutual acquaintances. All of these offers are listed under the same menu as direct friend requests, but if you are sure the invitation from the deceased did not originate as a suggestion from a third party, the person’s Facebook account was most likely either hacked or cloned.Facebook accounts are compromised in such ways for the usual reasons — to send spam, to facilitate identity theft or to buy things through a connected credit card. When no account owner is regularly logging in to use the profile page, some illicit behavior can go undetected for longer than it should. If you do get a friend request from someone who has passed away, report it to Facebook.To alert Facebook’s staff about the impostor, go to the profile page of the account that sent you the friend request. Click the menu button in the lower-right corner of the account’s main photo, choose Report and follow the steps. Facebook’s Help Center also has a form for those who do not have their own accounts with the social network, but want to report bogus friend requests sent by email.Like other social media services, Facebook has a way to convert the account of the departed into a memorial page so that friends are informed. However, the account owner needs to designate a legacy contact before death. The legacy contact can then do some administrative work on the profile page, like updating the profile photo and composing a pinned post for friends to see.Facebook’s Help Center also has instructions for reporting a user’s death to the company and having the account permanently deleted.
SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook’s virtual reality effort, including its big bet on the virtual reality goggles maker Oculus VR, has a new leader.Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, said in a post on Wednesday that Hugo Barra, a former executive at Google and the Chinese phone maker Xiaomi, was joining Facebook to lead its virtual reality business. The move puts to rest questions about who would assume direction of the efforts after Oculus ran into several hurdles, including an intellectual-property lawsuit and leadership changes.“Hugo shares my belief that virtual and augmented reality will be the next major computing platform,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote in the post. “Hugo is going to help build that future.”Facebook paid $2 billion to acquire Oculus almost three years ago, with Mr. Zuckerberg proclaiming virtual reality the next big thing. While Oculus has released its virtual reality goggles and there is interest in the field, sales of the headsets are sluggish, and even Mr. Zuckerberg has said Facebook will probably need to invest an additional $3 billion in content and development over the next few years in hopes of seeing virtual reality take off.Facebook’s desire to have a major stake in the technology undergirding virtual reality partly reflected the fact that it was not able to do so in mobile, even though it has managed to profit handsomely from mobile advertising. But the most capable virtual reality headsets are expensive and require powerful personal computers to support them. Breakout applications, including video games, have not materialized because developers have been reluctant to pour resources into an uncertain market.While Facebook does not provide sales figures for the $599 Oculus Rift headset, which was released to the public last year, analysts believe they are slow. One research firm, SuperData Research, estimated the company sold only about 355,000 by the end of last year.Oculus has been problematic for Facebook in other ways. Last month, a founder of Oculus, Brendan Iribe, stepped down as chief executive, moving to lead an Oculus group focused on virtual reality on personal computers. Facebook is also facing a lawsuit from ZeniMax Media, which has accused Oculus of stealing technology that went into the creation of the Oculus goggles. The social network could face as much as $2 billion in damages if it loses the suit.This month, Mr. Zuckerberg said at the trial for the lawsuit in a federal courthouse in Texas, “I don’t think that good virtual reality is fully there yet.”Mr. Barra is well known in Silicon Valley. As a Google executive several years ago, he helped build the search giant’s Android mobile business. In 2013, he left to join Xiaomi, then an up-and-coming phone maker in China, and became its international face. He oversaw Xiaomi’s international expansion to emerging markets including India, Myanmar and Brazil.But the high-flying smartphone maker, once valued at $45 billion, has slowed as it has battled other Chinese hardware companies like Huawei and OnePlus. Recently, Xiaomi stopped sharing its annual sales numbers, after the chief executive, Lei Jun, admitted the company had expanded “too fast.” Mr. Barra left Xiaomi this month.“The highest calling of an engineer is to make technology breakthroughs quickly and readily available to the widest possible spectrum of humanity,” Mr. Barra posted on Wednesday. “That will be my mission at Facebook.”
More than a year ago, the New York City Parks Department inaugurated the program Parks Without Borders. The idea? An obvious one: There are thousands of forbidding, disused, gated corners, squares and parks in town. They should be opened up, made accessible, inviting and useful. The Parks Department asked New Yorkers to propose sites.In recent weeks, Republican lawmakers have laid the groundwork for giving away hundreds of millions of acres of federal land. And these last few days have reminded us that we express who we are, and what we believe, in public spaces, not just big ones like the National Mall. Every year, five million people visit the American Museum of Natural History in Theodore Roosevelt Park. The park stretches from 77th to 81st Streets, between Central Park West and Columbus Avenue. Increasing numbers of pedestrians have made those blocks along Columbus — with a Shake Shack serving as a de facto museum cafeteria, and a farmer’s market during weekends — among the busiest on the Upper West Side.The roughly acre-size southwest quadrant of the park has long been gated and closed to the public. Around the time Parks Without Borders was announced, the museum unveiled plans for a large expansion facing Columbus. The expansion will take over a precious quarter-acre of parkland near 79th Street. In return, I wrote back then, the museum ought to nudge the Parks Department and neighborhood representatives to unlock the closed area at Columbus and 77th Street — and also offer to chip in for landscaping and maintenance. The area could get the same treatment as the north side of the park, which is a network of winding paths through gated lawns under pretty, old trees.In other words, add just a path and some benches, with the lawns fenced off for security and to keep costs down.Simple, inviting, useful.Turns out, the Theodore Roosevelt Park Neighborhood Association recently hired a landscape architect, Liz Farrell, to design that plan. Steve Anderson, a documentary filmmaker, leads the neighborhood association. He enlisted the architecture critic Paul Goldberger, a neighbor, who advocated opening that part of the park last spring at a Parks Without Borders event. The two shared Ms. Farrell’s renderings.Her proposal creates an entrance off Columbus and another from 77th Street with a snaking path in between, paved in asphalt and salvaged granite. There’s a spot for Santiago Calatrava’s Times Capsule, the 1999 outdoor sculpture now destined to be displaced by the museum’s expansion. The plan capitalizes on an existing double row of tall trees that provide a ready-made canopy for the path. It relieves pressure on the rest of the park, to which the expansion will add, and traces an obvious public desire line, now thwarted by the fences.This being New York, even something as straightforward as opening a gated public park for a single walking path ignites civil war. Neighbors of the park divide between north and south. Mr. Anderson’s group is essentially the 81st Street block association. Peter Wright heads another neighborhood group, Friends of Roosevelt Park, whose leadership skews toward 77th Street residents. Mr. Wright doesn’t want to open the park. He fears disturbing what he calls the “serene parkscape” outside his window, a block from Central Park. Mr. Wright said his group pays for about 40 percent of the park’s annual $250,000 operating budget.It has supported the museum’s expansion to the north, at 79th Street (over objections from yet another organization led by — who else? — neighbors who live closest to that area). Perhaps this support is one reason the museum hasn’t taken a stand on the gated quadrant at 77th Street.But it should.The new museum wing is a $340 million project. Ms. Farrell calculates her plan might cost, at the outside, $700,000. That’s 0.2 percent of the museum’s expansion budget.I reached out to the Parks Department. A spokeswoman, Crystal Howard, said the department is beginning a study of Theodore Roosevelt Park, expected to be completed by year’s end — which, let’s hope, is not bureaucratese for shoving the issue under a rug.Randy Garutti is the chief executive of Shake Shack and an Upper West Sider. Some locals worry that the opened park might become the restaurant’s patio. The company now voluntarily sweeps up trash for several blocks around its restaurant on Columbus Avenue, at 77th Street, including all the way to Central Park West. Mr. Garutti said that Shake Shack had no official position about opening up the park, but “has always taken care of our community and we intend to continue that commitment.”Mr. Wright raises an equity question: Why should the Parks Department expend resources to open up Theodore Roosevelt when it could devote money “to spruce up and maintain an orphan park or two in a poor neighborhood.”In effect, he’s using Parks Without Borders’ populist rhetoric to argue against opening up a gated part of a public park.Yes, there are underserved districts all over New York that should benefit from the program. But this doesn’t mean Theodore Roosevelt should be ignored — especially when the cost of landscaping and maintaining the fenced southwest quadrant for a path and benches could, and should, be defrayed by an institution like the museum that benefits directly from the park.Every year this park serves millions of children and families across the city. It will become even more heavily subscribed when the expansion is done.Public space should be public.
The leads have dried up in the killing of a young woman in Queens  during a jog last summer.Tips about potential suspects have gone nowhere. A reward has failed to bear fruit, even as it has swelled to over $280,000. And the samples of a stranger’s DNA found on the hands, throat and cellphone of the jogger, Karina Vetrano, 30, did not match those in national offender databases.But the authorities say that the recovered DNA could hold the key to solving the case if state officials authorize what is called familial searching, which allows investigators to search criminal databases to identify likely relatives of the offender.The technique, which has been used more than a dozen times in the United States over the last 10 years, represents a frontier in the evolving world of forensic science. While some methods, like microscopic hair testing and bite-mark matching, have been challenged in recent years, DNA testing remains a staple of forensic investigation, used to both identify suspects and exonerate the wrongfully convicted.Familial searching allows investigators to search offender databases with wider parameters to identify people who are likely to be close relatives of the person who may have committed a crime. Law enforcement officials say a hit in the database is less a piece of evidence than it is a lead, and such matches have helped solve some heinous crimes in states where the practice has been authorized.But the method raises some complicated ethical issues that have trailed the expansion of DNA technology since its introduction. And as the collection of DNA grows in the private sector, so do the concerns about its potential misuse, particularly in the hands of government institutions.Problems at some laboratories, including the New York City medical examiner’s office, have highlighted how DNA evidence is not immune from human error. A 2013 review of more than 800 rape cases processed by the medical examiner’s office found that DNA evidence was mishandled in dozens of cases.In the case of Ms. Vetrano, who the police say was sexually assaulted and strangled,  lack of progress led Richard A. Brown, the Queens district attorney, to push for familial searching.“The Police Department reached a point where they exhausted all their leads. And they came to us and said in essence, ‘What else can we possibly do?’” Mr. Brown said in an interview.Mr. Brown and two of his deputies, Eric Rosenbaum and Robert J. Masters, said that Ms. Vetrano’s case presented an ideal situation for using familial searching, in part because of what they say is the high likelihood that the DNA is from the perpetrator.“It is a stranger rape case,” Mr. Masters said. “In the annals of law enforcement, there are few fact patterns that are more frightening.”The New York State Commission on Forensic Science, a 14-member panel appointed by the governor to develop standards for forensic laboratories, and its seven-member DNA subcommittee will hold a meeting next month on whether to authorize the technique.Familial DNA searching was pioneered in Britain, helping in 2002 in what was believed to be the first conviction using the technique. In 2008, California became the first state in the country to authorize the testing, and Colorado followed a year later. It has now been used in at least eight other states.California has solved seven cases using familial searching, a spokeswoman for the state’s Justice Department said. One was the so-called Grim Sleeper case in Los Angeles. A serial killer preyed on vulnerable women and eluded identification for decades until investigators matched crime scene DNA to the killer’s son, whose DNA was in an offender database.“You’ve got a serial murderer or rapist in your community — you sit on your hands and wait for him to get in your database or do you try something?” said Mitchell R. Morrissey, an early proponent of the testing and a former district attorney in Denver.In New York, efforts to authorize such testing through the Legislature went nowhere several years ago. A compromise that allowed the authorities to use partial DNA matches automatically generated in the course of routine investigations has proved ineffective.But Ms. Vetrano’s case — along with the public pleas of her father, Philip, and his behind-the-scenes work with the Police Department and elected officials — has re-energized the push for familial searching.Critics of the technique say that regardless of its potential for success, it expands the use of DNA databases beyond their original intent. They fault it for allowing for searches of people who happen to be related to someone who has committed a crime, and say that given the composition of the offender databases, familial searching disproportionately affects blacks and Hispanics.“You’re creating a database of suspects largely defined by their race and class,” said Stephen Mercer, the chief attorney of the forensics division of the public defender’s office in Maryland, which outlawed the technique in 2008 in the face of these concerns. “That is just so fundamentally against our core values.”The District of Columbia has also prohibited these searches.Leads provided by familial DNA have resulted in errors. A filmmaker in New Orleans was told that he was a suspect in a murder in Idaho based on a DNA sample given by his father years earlier as part of a church-sponsored genealogy project. Ancestry.com, which had purchased the database from a nonprofit that had collected the DNA, was required by a court order to identify the man to the police.The man was cleared after his DNA — which he gave under a court order — was tested.Since then, Ancestry.com has made the database private and has not received any other requests from law enforcement officials for health or genetic information about an Ancestry member, a spokesman for the company said. The spokesman, Brandon Borrman, said the company would comply with such a request only if legally required.Proponents of the technique said the filmmaker’s case could have been handled differently; DNA samples of potential suspects can be retrieved surreptitiously, from a discarded soda can, for example.But in some cases, that hasn’t been a ready option. Investigators chasing the so-called BTK serial killer in Wichita, Kan., compelled a hospital to turn over a sample of the suspect’s daughter’s DNA; she had recently undergone a Pap test. That sample allowed the police to acquire an arrest warrant for the man, Dennis Rader. Mr. Rader later was sentenced to more than 170 years in prison after pleading guilty to 10 counts of first-degree murder.The legal implications of familial testing, namely whether it is limited by the Fourth Amendment’s prohibition of unreasonable searches or the 14th Amendment’s equal protection clause, have not been tested in the courts, Erin E. Murphy, a law professor at New York University, said.She said the logic that law enforcement officials rely on to support familial testing should, by extension, support the testing of other government databases, which include repositories of DNA from members of the military, forensic personnel and crime victims. But such testing would most likely face wider opposition.“Familial searching is just an end-run around these debates,” said Professor Murphy, the author of “Inside the Cell: The Dark Side of Forensic DNA.” “You shouldn’t have fewer civil rights because you’re related to someone who broke the law.”A spokesman for Mr. Brown, the Queens district attorney, said it would be premature to answer questions about whether the office would seek to search other databases.If the DNA subcommittee and the New York State forensic commission vote to approve familial searching after the meeting on Feb. 10, a 45-day period for public comment will follow.The Legal Aid Society and the New York Civil Liberties Union have both filed memos with the commission that question the method’s constitutionality as well as the commission’s authority to weigh in on the matter.Many law enforcement officials around the state said that any trade-offs in civil liberties were minor compared with the potential to solve some particularly difficult cases. “Invasion of privacy is basically what law enforcement does. We do it legally. We do it with warrants, court orders,” William J. Fitzpatrick, the Onondaga County district attorney and a proponent of the technique, said.Mr. Fitzpatrick, who is a member of the state forensic commission, compared the method to a tip from an informant. “You’re telling me that if I have a scientific piece of evidence that shows me a perpetrator’s son is in prison — what’s a better lead?”In New York City, the police commissioner, James P. O’Neill, and the district attorneys from Brooklyn, the Bronx, Manhattan and Staten Island, support authorizing the method.Mr. Vetrano acknowledges that the testing may not lead to his daughter’s killer, but he said he would continue to advocate its use. “This would have been left as a dead issue unless I started making waves,” he said. “I’m the squeaky wheel and I will never ever stop.”

Each Saturday, Farhad Manjoo and Mike Isaac, technology reporters at The New York Times, review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry.Mike: Ahoy, Farhad! This week has felt like a month, between all the executive orders from our new president, and your return to the United States from your trip to India. Both have one thing in common: They are stressing out the American people.Farhad: No, no, that’s just what the unfair media would say. When I landed back in America there was a huge crowd to greet me at the airport. Some airport officials told me it was even bigger than the crowd Steph Curry gets when he travels. People love me, Mike. They love me.Mike: Yes, well, I’ll be sure to compare the A.P. photos.Let’s talk about tech. First, a bit of sad news. Our colleague, Quentin Hardy, is headed to Google to lead editorial efforts for the company’s cloud computing division. Bummer for us, but bully for Google! Now we must be sure to go extra, extra hard on the cloud, right?Farhad: Yeah, what if the cloud’s a fad? Sure, Microsoft just reported huge growth in its cloud business, and in its earnings report, Google said it had seen a “terrific upswing” in revenue from selling online server space. (That’s how they could afford Quentin.) But look, the newspaper business has been around forever. It’s proven. I don’t know why you’d leave that certainty behind.Mike: Indeed. Happy trails to Quentin and his clouds. Me, I’m investing all my money in a different kind of cloud: Vaping. I’m telling you, it’s huge.This week in fake news: Google, Facebook and Snapchat all seem to be stepping up efforts to tamp down the emergence of fake news sites across their properties. For Google, that means superboring ad network stuff, which is important in the same way eating your daily serving of broccoli rabe is important. For Snapchat, that means cleaning up the types of content people see and promoting more quality stories. To continue that metaphor: More vegetables, fewer helpings of Doritos Cool Ranch (which, to be clear, are delicious).And for Facebook, that will mean even more changes to how it surfaces news in the Trending Topics section. I don’t know what kind of food-related metaphor fits this exactly, but I’m going to go with “Mark Zuckerberg killing his own bison,” because that’s an image that still brings me great mirth.Farhad: As a frequent reader of Snapchat’s Discover section, I’m quite worried about these changes. Snapchat is my only source of news for the all-important subject of how little clothing various Kardashian sisters wear when going out. I really hope that doesn’t go away.Mike: I’m sure you can find that material elsewhere on the internet.Moving on, Bloomberg had a good article this week about Uber drivers who sleep in their cars on certain shifts, reminding me to ask you if you still sleep in your car or if your clothes just make you look like you do.Farhad: As I’ve told you repeatedly, I’m trying out a new fashion style, rumpled chic. It’s gonna be a thing. Just watch.Mike: In all seriousness, it’s quite an interesting way to look at the future of work, and what worker conditions could mean when you’re trying to earn as much as possible even when you’re setting your own hours. I can say, from experience, that sleeping in your car sucks. I do not miss my high school days.So let’s get onto the main event: Donald J. Trump. He spent the first full week in office issuing executive orders, then sending media and the public into a tizzy when some of them weren’t fully explained or even published on the White House website in a timely manner.Beyond all the orders that may or may not actually be carried out, I think one thing weighing on citizens’ minds is the fact that Trump still uses an unsecured Android phone to tweet from his personal account, @realDonaldTrump.Farhad: The ancient Android phone is quite worrying. Anyone who went crazy over Hillary Clinton’s emails should be tearing their hair out about Trump’s phone. Cybersecurity experts pointed out that it would be trivial for any hostile power (or even a friendly power) to break into the phone and turn it into an all-purpose recording device, getting intel on everything that happens in the White House. Nicholas Weaver, a computer security expert, issued this warning on the blog Lawfare: “First, anyone around the president should presume they are being actively recorded by hostile powers, regardless of location, unless they are positive the phone is out of the room.”Welp.Mike: If that’s true, let me just say right now that everything I say is satire. Please don’t prosecute me.What’s more, Speaker of the House Paul Ryan has essentially said we should just get used to Trump’s unsecured phone and, from the outside, it doesn’t seem like any national security agencies are actually intervening and saying, “Uh, sir, this is an incredibly bad idea.”And let me be crystal clear, here: This is, in fact, an incredibly bad idea. We’ve seen the A.P. Twitter account hacked in the past and used to tweet a false message that the president was killed, and it sent global stock markets into turmoil. Trump makes a new news cycle every time he tweets an off-the-cuff remark about something he’s seen on television.Do you think anyone will actually step in and tell him he can’t do what he’s doing here? It seems they haven’t yet — at least, until he inadvertently starts a trade war with Mexico because of an errant tweet.Farhad: Unlikely. Trump seems, to put it mildly, set in his ways. But there are some folks trying to figure out ways to appeal to him. One case study is Elon Musk, the C.E.O. of Tesla. Musk took heat this week for endorsing Rex Tillerson, Trump’s pick for secretary of state. It did seem like an odd move — after all, Tesla is betting on a future driven by renewable energy, and Tillerson is the former C.E.O. of Exxon.But as our colleague Jim Stewart explains, both Trump and Musk have a lot to gain from cooperation. Tesla is building factories in America, something that fits into Trump’s narrative of a resurgent American manufacturing sector. And Musk needs the government — lots of his businesses, including car sales, depend on federal subsidies.Plus, as Musk argued in a conversation with Gizmodo this week, talking to Trump will yield better results than fighting with him. “The more voices of reason that the president hears, the better,” he said. “Simply attacking him will achieve nothing. Are you aware of a single case where Trump bowed to protests or media attacks? Better that there are open channels of communication.”That’s kind of how I think about my relationship with you. Chat next week, Mike!Mike: Not if I attack you on Twitter first. Ta-ta!
It was the week before the inauguration, and Marlo Thomas, the actress, author and second-wave feminist activist, was wrestling with whether or not to join her old friend and collaborator, Gloria Steinem, at the Women’s March on Washington. The timing was complicated: Ms. Thomas was about to unveil a clothing line for the Home Shopping Network called “That Woman,” which meant a trip to Tampa, Fla., for an on-air selling marathon, along with a couple of mall appearances, in the days leading up to the march.“That Woman,” of course, had been named to evoke “That Girl,” Ms. Thomas’s television show from the late 1960s that was a feminist touchstone. Airing from 1966 to 1971, “That Girl” was Ann Marie: a young, single working woman, living alone in New York City, and a proxy for Ms. Thomas.As part of her pitch to ABC, whose executives warned that the concept just wouldn’t sell, Ms. Thomas gave the head of programming a copy of Betty Friedan’s book “The Feminine Mystique.” When those same network executives pushed for the series to conclude with Ann and her boyfriend, Donald, a magazine writer played by Ted Bessell, getting married, Ms. Thomas pushed back. Their engagement during the fifth and final season was the compromise, though the last episode found them stuck on an elevator, arguing about who had the most power in the relationship.Ms. Thomas used her considerable comedic chops to defang the cultural threat posed by Ann’s implicit power as an unmarried woman. (As she learned from her father, comedy can be a Trojan Horse for all sorts of subversions.)And she used fashion to distinguish herself from her television forebears. She shed the housewife gear, the demure shifts, Peter Pan collars and aprons sported by Lucille Ball, Donna Reed and even Elizabeth Montgomery, for the uniform of the ’60s youthquake — graphic, eye-popping designs from Andre Courreges and Mary Quant — to be followed by the more bohemian accouterments of the early ’70s, like the styles of Halston, Giorgio di Sant’ Angelo and Yves St. Laurent.“That Woman” — a collection of 15 pieces and a tote — is not going to make fashion history. But it is the first commercial product that Ms. Thomas, now 79, has put her name on in decades, and she is proud of it, even though it might surprise those who know her as a founder in 1973 of the Ms. Foundation, with Ms. Steinem, Letty Cottin Pogrebin and Patricia Carbine, to fund social justice efforts; or as the mistress-mind behind “Free to Be … You and Me,” an album, best-selling book and TV show upending gender stereotypes.“David Geffen once told me that the problem with having too many options is that if you don’t play one, you might as well not have any,” Ms. Thomas said of her more recent project. “So I decided to play an option. But my way, so I’m in control of everything.”On this mild Thursday morning, she wore a “That Woman” ensemble: a form-fitting black-cotton sweater that laced at the neck, black jersey pants and her own black ankle boots. The casual clothes might seem to appeal to a younger crowd than the HSN demographic. (The network’s median customer age is 59, according to the company.) But the fabrics were sturdy, not flimsy, and Ms. Thomas, her figure still girlish, made the outfit look wonderful.That’s the spandex, she said.“People make decisions about how they should look at a given age,” Ms. Thomas continued. “But I think you should keep in mind how you move and how you sit. I like things that show a little skin somewhere, something that makes you feel, as you’re standing in a room full of men, that you’re not just one of the guys.”Ms. Thomas sat astride paisley floor pillows in the glassy living room of the Fifth Avenue penthouse she shares with her husband, Phil Donahue, long America’s favorite male feminist and talk-show host. You could see Central Park stretched out in its entirety beyond the terrace walls.The two fell in love, on the air, in 1977, when she was a guest on “The Phil Donahue Show.” Ms. Thomas has the video that proves it. (You can find the clip on YouTube; their fumbling, instant rapport is deeply adorable.) “We flirted for the whole hour, to an embarrassing degree,” she said. “He asked me if I would ever get married, and I said, ‘Never.’ I talked about feminism and why marriage was not a good institution for women, how marriages were only good for one and a half people.”Ms. Thomas’s traditionally married parents were an example she was not eager to emulate. Her Italian mother, Rose Marie, was a singer with a radio program when she met the comedian Danny Thomas, whose Lebanese background was as patriarchal as her own, so there was no question whose career would come first.Still, Ms. Thomas and Mr. Donahue started dating the day after the show. At the time, he was living with four sons from his first marriage, to Margaret Cooney (their daughter was living with her mother), frat-house style, as Ms. Thomas recalled. Not only was Ms. Thomas, then in her early 40s, used to living alone, but, she said, “I wasn’t used to that many towels and jock straps; I had never been with a man before who had ‘Dad’ written on his underwear.”In 1966, when “That Girl” went on the air, the birth control pill was still illegal in many states. It wasn’t until 1972 that the Supreme Court ruled that contraception in any form could be distributed to single people. As these cases churned through the judicial system, “That Girl” remained so chaste that Donald’s bare ankles were a plot device.Musing on how culture evolves in fits and starts, Ms. Thomas said, “When I played Jennifer Aniston’s mother on ‘Friends,’ and they talked about the wet spot on the bed, I thought, ‘Oh my God, wouldn’t Donald turn over?’”How women are depicted on television reached a high point, Ms. Thomas said, with “Roseanne” — Roseanne Barr’s irascible character on the ABC sitcom that ran for nearly a decade starting in 1988. “She was the first woman who dared to be unlikable,” Ms. Thomas said. “Me and Mary were good girls. But Roseanne was a woman who hated her children, who ever says that? She was the Jackie Gleason” of female role models. Like Lena Dunham, Ms. Thomas said, Ms. Barr showed that you can be a role model without being perfect.Ms. Thomas and Ms. Steinem were introduced by a (male) agent, who proposed a film project in which Ms. Thomas would portray Ms. Steinem when she went undercover as a Playboy bunny. “Boy, I don’t know which one of you I’d like to sleep with first,” he told them in his office, she recalled in her 2010 memoir, “Growing Up Laughing” — except he used a different verb. “Boy, did he pick the wrong two women to say that to,” Ms. Thomas wrote.Ms. Steinem said later, “Two friends have different memories, but I probably still owe her a script.” Nonetheless, she added: “We recognized in each other two women who were trying to forge a life that was different from what we’d been brought up to do. I can’t express how terrible the 1950s were. You really were brought up to believe your life would be shaped by your husband’s needs and your children’s needs. This made marriage seem a lot like death.”When Ms. Thomas and Mr. Donahue married in 1980, Ms. Thomas said she felt as though she was abandoning Ms. Steinem. “I wrote her a letter,” she recalled, “saying that this may be the challenge of sisterhood, that we can take different paths.”Ms. Steinem, whose speech at the Women’s March this month noted the upside of a long life — “You remember,” she said, “when things were much worse” — recalled how for a long time Ms. Thomas, being an actor, had fudged her age. “But when she turned 60, someone reported it. So Marlo said, ‘You can imagine how hard it is to be 60 when you’ve never been 40 or 50.’”In 2014, Ms. Thomas was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom — the same year Meryl Streep received hers, as it happens — for her social justice advocacy and her work with the St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital, the free pediatric cancer research and treatment center in Memphis founded by her father.“I got a flash of my grandparents who were immigrants from Lebanon and came here with their belongings in sacks,” she said. “What would they think of my standing here at the White House? I choked up. I am a second-generation Italian and Lebanese person. Both sets of grandparents were in arranged marriages. I’ve often thought, ‘What would they think of me who took my own sweet time to get married to the man I chose?’ They didn’t have that freedom.”Though Ms. Thomas had campaigned heavily for Hillary Clinton, she declined to talk politics. (And she had to sit out the Women’s March, it turned out, because of a bug she caught in Florida. “I hated to miss it,” she said. “I marched all over the country for the E.R.A. I’ve marched for pro-choice. Phil and I march together in the Gay Pride Parade. It was hard not being there.”)“Let me turn this into a comedic bit,” Ms. Thomas said of the election. “I love that people are discovering there’s fake news. If you’re a public person, you’ve been living with fake news your entire life, only you’ve been clawing the walls, asking yourself, ‘Why are they saying that?’”
Investing in UBS is a bet on an uncertain world.The Swiss bank reckons resurgent investors may bolster its tepid 6.1 percent return on equity for 2016. But after a fourth quarter marked by net outflows of $5.4 billion and a further withering of wealth management margins, the hopes of the bank’s chief executive, Sergio Ermotti, for a pickup in activity need quick consummation.Investment banking and wealth management in the Americas were bright spots in the three months to December. UBS has less firepower in fixed-income trading, which has been booming. But revenue jumps in equities trading and in the origination and advisory business were bigger than at its rivals. Meanwhile, higher short-term interest rates and higher fees helped revenue at UBS Wealth Management Americas.The snag is that the outlook could disappoint even though client surveys point to rebounding confidence. In investment banking, UBS is less exposed to the United States than its rivals and more geared toward Asia, which is underperforming. Wealth management transaction fees could bring in more money in America if the recent rally in United States stocks spurs clients to rebalance their portfolios. But they may not rise much elsewhere.There are other risks. One is the potential for litigation as countries force UBS and other private banks to ditch investors’ assets that do not comply with tax rules. It bodes ill that the European Court of Human Rights this month rejected the Swiss bank’s appeal against aspects of a French government case.Another is the possibility of adverse currency swings. UBS estimates that a 10 percent drop in the dollar’s value against the Swiss franc would depress its pretax profit by 600 million Swiss francs relative to average forecasts. Any such move would offset the impact of Mr. Ermotti’s cost-cutting program, which is expected to deliver 500 million Swiss francs in savings this year.UBS looks doubly exposed to fickle markets, since President Trump’s policies will dictate whether American investors’ animal spirits persist.With UBS shares trading around a third above their estimated 2017 tangible book value — and in line with purer plays like Morgan Stanley and Goldman Sachs — the Swiss bank looks fully priced.
A cartoon circulating on social media captures the mood of many viewers and readers trying to cope with the current barrage of breaking news.The cartoon, by David Sipress, shows a couple walking together, with the woman saying, “My desire to be well-informed is currently at odds with my desire to remain sane.”It feels as if we are living in a Superconducting Super Collider of news, with information bombarding us at a head-spinning velocity. The result is a fatigue about the headlines — lately about politics — that has prompted some people to withdraw from the news, or curb their consumption of it.Christian Livermore, an American writer living in St. Andrews, Scotland, said in an email that since the presidential election, she has been skimming instead of deeply reading the news.“At a certain point, there’s a misery quotient that results from immersing one’s self in the news, in the almost forensic detail of the suffering, and I have to ask myself, ‘How does this affect my life?’” she wrote.Experts said they had not seen data to conclude that consumers had changed their habits to protect their mental health, but added that the news ecosystem had changed drastically over the past five years, accelerating the sense of information overload.Dan Gillmor, a professor of media literacy at the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism and Mass Communication at Arizona State University, said the number of news media has increased sharply, while there has been an “incredible rise of the ubiquitousness of social media” and sharing of news on platforms such as Facebook.“Things really are different,” he said. “There’s just more stuff if we’re online and paying attention. There’s a lot to pay attention to.”He added that in today’s television news environment, the definition of breaking news “means the latest thing we have to show you.”Leslie-Jean Thornton, a journalism professor who is a colleague of Mr. Gillmor’s at Arizona State University, said that even faculty members who by necessity were steeped in news needed breaks from it.“As journalism professors, there’s a need and a desire to stay on top of things — so much so that it becomes somewhat addictive for some of us,” she wrote in an email. “It’s hard to step away, even for a few hours, but yet the constant wash of uncertainties is emotionally draining and physically harmful — teeth damaged from being clenched in anger or frustration, skyrocketing blood pressure, heart palpitations.”She added, “I joke that we need trauma care, but I’m not really joking at all.”Graham C. L. Davey, emeritus professor of psychology at the University of Sussex in England, said in an email that many people followed the news because they did not want to be caught unaware.“These are the people with an intolerance of uncertainty, and are probably already anxious individuals, and are exactly the ones for whom negative news has a negative psychological impact on their own personal anxieties and worries,” he said.As consumers become satiated, the news media responds by increasing the “emotionality” of its coverage, meaning negativity is emphasized to keep customers engaged, he wrote.Mr. Gillmor has been a proponent of the “slow news movement,” named after the slow food movement, which maintains it is better for consumers’ health to cook and eat more slowly.“We haven’t been asking anything of the news-producing group, namely journalists, who I would strongly argue should be more involved in managing the insane flow of information and misinformation,” he said. “It would be better if we had an approach that said, ‘Calm down.’”How then best to cope with the velocity and quantity of news?Some have found comfort in positive news, said Seán Dagan Wood, editor in chief of Positive News, a website and quarterly print magazine that highlights “quality independent reporting that focuses on progress and possibility.”In the 12 weeks since the election, visitors to the website have increased by 93 percent, and magazine subscriptions are up by 77 percent compared with the 12 weeks before the election, Mr. Wood said in an email.For those glued to the news, Curtis W. Reisinger, a clinical psychologist at Zucker Hillside Hospital in Glen Oaks, N.Y., recommended not reading or watching any just before bedtime because thoughts of how to respond to it can disrupt sleep. Better to watch sports or entertainment rather than the “worry content” of news, he said.Nir Eyal, who writes a blog about “behavioral design” — the intersection of psychology, technology and business — said he habitually turned to campaign coverage to momentarily distract him from his work and escape from “an uncomfortable reality.”What he found, however, was that he traded one uncomfortable reality (the demand to get his work done) for another (the addictive quality of watching the news for fear he was missing out on something).“The solution became the problem,” he said.In a recent blog post, “How to Stay Informed Without Losing Your Mind,” he noted that “online news is never done,” adding that reading it left him “overwhelmed, exhausted and anxious.”“The internet never says, ‘You’ve had enough, now go away,’” he wrote.Mr. Eyal has changed some of his habits; he has installed the News Feed Eradicator for Facebook and removed Facebook and Twitter apps from his iPhone, checking them only from his desktop.He has also taken to reading a daily newspaper because editors select the top stories and spare him from reading “the incomplete, incremental, second-rate stuff often published online.”“And when I physically turned the last page of the newspaper — such a satisfying moment — I felt as if I’d read enough to be informed for the day,” he said.If all else fails, and you still feel bouts of news fatigue, you can turn to Twitter for photos of cute animals.
CAIRO — Across the Muslim world, the refrain was resounding: President Trump’s freeze on refugee arrivals and visa requests from seven predominantly Muslim countries will have major diplomatic repercussions, worsen perceptions of Americans and offer a propaganda boost to the terrorist groups Mr. Trump says he is targeting.Mr. Trump’s stance has been evident since the early days of his campaign, when he advocated a “complete and total shutdown” of all Muslims entering the United States.President Trump has since softened his language, casting his order on Friday as a way to keep terrorists, not Muslims, out of the United States.“We don’t want them here,” Mr. Trump said as he signed the order at the Pentagon. “We want to ensure that we are not admitting into our country the very threats our soldiers are fighting overseas.”But in interviews with dozens of officials, analysts and ordinary citizens across Muslim-majority countries, there was overwhelming agreement that the order issued Friday signaled a provocation: a sign that the American president sees Islam itself as the problem.“I think this is going to alienate the whole Muslim world,” said Mouwafak al-Rubaie, a lawmaker and former Iraqi national security adviser in Iraq.“Terrorists can say, ‘See, their aim is not terror but Muslims,’ ” said Ilter Turan, a professor of international relations at Bilgi University in Istanbul.For years, American policy in much of the Muslim world has been an exercise in pragmatism, framed by a transactional ethos and the bloodshed of several wars.Yet even as President George W. Bush and then President Barack Obama launched military action or covert strikes, they publicly stressed their commitment to religious tolerance, and that there was no American war on Islam.Now, according to some of America’s most experienced veterans of Arab diplomacy, that important distinction has been compromised — and along with it America’s relationship with the very people it is seeking to befriend.“The Islamic State says it is leading the war against the U.S.,” said Ryan C. Crocker, who served as the United States ambassador to five Muslim countries, including Afghanistan, Iraq and Lebanon, between 1990 and 2012. “Now it only has to pump out our press releases to prove that.”Mr. Trump’s executive order will alienate the pro-Western elites that Americans turn to for help in Muslim countries, Mr. Crocker said. And it broke promises to people who have risked their lives to help American soldiers or diplomats.“You know, we can be cynical about these things, but values count,” Mr. Crocker said. “This is a core identity of ours that we are repudiating in a very callous fashion. What do we do — get a new inscription on the Statue of Liberty?”The ban on entry to the United States will affect citizens of Syria, Iran, Iraq, Somalia, Sudan, Libya and Yemen, who will be prohibited from entering the country for 90 days until the Trump administration tightens up visa controls that many feel are already excessively stringent.Refugees from Syria, whom Mr. Trump portrayed during his election campaign as potential Islamic State infiltrators, will be barred indefinitely from the country.But even in countries not directly affected by the ban, it sent a dispiriting signal.“It gives the impression that America is no longer the country it used to be,” said Ammar Ali Hassan, a prominent Egyptian novelist. “It is no longer open to skilled people from across the world. It is no longer the land of dreams.”Muslims in many Western countries have felt the brunt of paranoia and racial discrimination as Islamic State attacks have continued in the past year and the public furor over immigration has grown.In France, armed policemen confronted a Muslim woman on a beach and forced her to remove her clothing as part of a ban on burka-like swimsuits. Hate speech against Muslims soared in Britain after the vote in June to leave the European Union. There have been numerous reports of Muslims being harassed in the United States since Mr. Trump’s election.Now Muslims from abroad face the prospect of “extreme vetting” to enter the country — if they can secure a visa at all.On Wednesday, Mr. Trump, in his first television interview as president, framed his policy in the tones of a wider religious conflict when he referred to the Islamic State as a product of the Middle Ages that singles out Christians for execution, though the group has killed countless Muslims around the world.On Friday, Mr. Trump said that once the United States resumed the intake of refugees, Christians would receive priority. Until recently, “If you were a Muslim you could come in, but if you were a Christian, it was almost impossible,” he told Christian Broadcasting News.In fact, the United States accepts tens of thousands of Christian refugees. According to the Pew Research Center, almost as many Christian refugees (37,521) were admitted as Muslim refugees (38,901) in the 2016 fiscal year.Many Muslims have long viewed America’s vision of itself as hypocritical and its idealism as degraded. After years of grinding war in countries like Afghanistan and Iraq, there is a growing belief that even many Americans do not truly believe talk about America being a “shining city on the hill” that seeks to do good in the world.“Trump has dispensed with the politeness, but that wasn’t fooling people before,” said Karl Sharro, a Lebanese-Iraqi architect and commentator who is based in London. “In being honest about these draconian measures, a lot of people will say that at least we know where we stand now.”In a recent article for Politico, Mr. Sharro drew on the growing similarities between the United States’ political scene and that of many Arab countries, with allegations of vote rigging, feuds involving the security services, accusations of foreign meddling and vicious arguments between the country’s leader and the media.“I just collected what everyone is saying in Arab countries,” he said. “It’s a kind of schadenfreude.”Mr. Sharro said he was insulted by suggestions that the visa ban might help create a new cadre of radicalized Muslims.“The assumption that these people are going to flip into terrorists and start attacking the United States is driven by some very condescending liberal assumptions,” he said.Visiting the United States can already be a demeaning process for many Muslims. Refugees have to go through an exhaustive 18-month security clearance program, while visitors on tourist or business visas have complained of being sometimes singled out at American airports.“Only Americans suffer from the delusion that Muslims are not already being extensively racially profiled at immigration counters when they enter the United States,” said Ali Dayan Hasan, a human rights consultant from Pakistan who has regularly visited the United States since 2001.Notably, even though Mr. Trump’s ban is ostensibly based on security concerns, it excludes countries like Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Pakistan, whose citizens have been responsible for some of the most serious terrorist plots against the United States since 2001. Those countries are harder to push around. Pakistan has nuclear weapons, Saudi Arabia is a major source of oil, and the United Arab Emirates is a major source of investment. Mr. Trump’s company has a golf club in Dubai and holdings related to a possible hotel venture in Saudi Arabia.Arab leaders in countries unaffected by the visa ban may not respond with outright criticism of the United States, possibly waiting to see what active steps Mr. Trump takes in the region’s many crises.There is also a question of moral debt. Many Iraqis and Afghans who have worked for the United States since 2001, often as interpreters, say they were promised resettlement in the United States to save them from attack at home. During the Obama administration, a program to grant special visas to interpreters was continued, even as the process was delayed by resistance in Congress and ever stricter security screening procedures.The new measures announced by Mr. Trump now place those promises in jeopardy, said Mr. Crocker, who since retiring from the foreign service has helped several interpreters get resettled in the United States. The measures, he said, also send an ominous message to anyone who might consider working for the American government in the future.“We are effectively saying to past, current and potential future interpreters,” he said, “that we want them to work with us and risk their lives in the field — confident in the knowledge that they will be hung out to dry.”
Once again, a TV talking head, who is paid to make outrageous comments and drive up ratings, made some strong comments about a star athlete. Usually, the star athlete ignores or laughs off such comments, but this time he decided that he had had enough.After years of criticism from Charles Barkley, LeBron James finally fired back.Barkley, in his role as outspoken commentator on TNT, has been a relentless critic of James, dating to 2010 when he faulted James’s move to Miami from Cleveland.More recently, he took issue with James’s stated desire for his Cavaliers to add a playmaking guard.“Inappropriate. Whiny. All of the above,” Barkley said on TNT last week.“The Cleveland Cavaliers, they have given him everything he wanted. They have the highest payroll in N.B.A. history. He wanted J.R. Smith last summer, they paid him. He wanted Shumpert last summer. They brought in Kyle Korver. He’s the best player in the world. Does he want all of the good players? He don’t want to compete?”“LeBron’s a great player and a great guy, but this notion that he’s got to have all the best players on his team. ...”Two other commentators, Shaquille O’Neal and Kenny Smith, agreed that James’s comments about adding a playmaking guard were “inappropriate,” but Barkley’s comments were by far the most incendiary.“This ain’t like a 7-Eleven where you can go in and buy anything,” Barkley said. “They’re trying to make trades.”James has mostly avoided taking on Barkley, but in a Monday night interview with ESPN, he finally let loose.“I’m tired of biting my tongue,” James said. “There’s a new sheriff in town.”“He’s a hater,” James said of Barkley. “What makes what he says credible? Because he’s on TV?”“I’m not going to let him disrespect my legacy like that,” James said. Referring to numerous incidents Barkley has been involved in over the years, he said: “I’m not the one who threw somebody through a window. I never spit on a kid. I never had unpaid debt in Las Vegas. I never said, ‘I’m not a role model.’ I never showed up to All-Star weekend on Sunday because I was in Vegas all weekend partying.”He added: “All I’ve done for my entire career is represent the N.B.A. the right way. Fourteen years, never got in trouble. Respected the game. Print that.”Barkley has not been hesitant in the past to feud with the great players.He has said his critiques of Michael Jordan’s performance as chairman of the N.B.A. team in Charlotte drove a wedge between them. They were formerly close. He has traded barbs with the former forward Charles Oakley. After a back-and-forth over her husband, Dwyane Wade, the actress Gabrielle Union said that sparring with Barkley was like “playing Scrabble with a toddler.”
Prosecutors in Washington have dropped felony rioting charges against four of the six journalists arrested while covering Inauguration Day protests, but charges remain in place against two others.The six were among 230 people arrested during violent demonstrations that took place just blocks from the inauguration of Donald J. Trump, who was sworn in as the 45th president on Jan. 20. Some protesters smashed shop windows in downtown Washington and set a limousine on fire.Charges against three of the journalists — Matthew Hopard, John Keller and Alexander Rubinstein — were dropped on Monday, according to Bill Miller, a spokesman for the United States attorney’s office for the District of Columbia.Charges against a fourth — Evan Engel, a writer for the media and technology site Vocativ — were dropped on Friday.In a series of statements, the attorney’s office said it had determined that the four defendants are, indeed, journalists. But Mr. Miller declined to comment on the charges pending against the remaining two, Shay Horse and Aaron Cantu, or to say whether prosecutors considered them reporters.“There were 230 people who were charged with felony rioting that day, and to date these are the only case we have dismissed,” Mr. Miller said. The attorney’s office said it was continuing to review evidence related to the arrests.Advocates for freedom of the press expressed concern about the arrest and prosecution of reporters.“We remain concerned that Aaron is still being charged with a felony because our understanding is that he was there as a journalist,” Courtney Radsch, the advocacy director of the Committee to Protect Journalists.“If the authorities have evidence that is not true, they need to present that or else not continue to charge him,” she added. “Journalism is not a criminal activity.”Mr. Cantu declined to comment on Monday, citing the advice of his lawyer. An attempt to contact Mr. Horse was not successful.The case against the six journalists was complicated by the fact that all except for Mr. Engel are freelance reporters who do not have a media organization to vouch for them before the authorities, Ms. Radsch said.“Freelancers often face additional challenges with respect to reporting and safety because they are freelancers,” she said.That can become an especially sticky situation when a freelancer or blogger blurs the lines between reporting and activism, or expresses political opinions on social media. Mr. Horse, in particular, identifies himself on Twitter as an anarchist, one of the groups involved in protests on Inauguration Day.Katy Glenn Bass, the director of Free Expression Policy and Research at Pen America, said that freelance reporters “enjoy the same right to gather information in a public location that all citizens do.” She called the continued prosecution of Mr. Cantu and Mr. Horse “worrying.”“The U.S. attorney’s office should explain their grounds for the charges against Cantu and Horse or drop them immediately,” Ms. Bass said.
Q. I lost my MacBook power cord. I went on Apple’s site to buy a new one but they had a bunch listed and I don’t know which one is right for my model. How can I get the correct charger?A. Apple has made a number of MacBook power adapters over the years and they vary by connection plug and wattage. To get a replacement power adapter that specifically fits your laptop, you should first confirm the model you are using. Apple’s laptop family includes the MacBook, the MacBook Pro and MacBook Air lines.You can find this information by going to the Apple menu in the upper-left corner of the screen and choosing About This Mac. When the System Information box appears, you should see the exact model year and name of your MacBook displayed on the Overview tab.When you have found the name of your MacBook model, you can check Apple’s list of power adapters that go with each of its laptops. You can also find out more information about your laptop (including power adapter wattage) by clicking the System Report button on the Overview tab, back in the MacBook’s System Information box.Apple gives its power adapters specific names, like “60W MagSafe power adapter with ‘T’ style connector” or “Apple 29W USB-C Power Adapter and USB-C Charge Cable.” You can use this name to search for a replacement unit on Apple’s online store, in its retail stores or at stores that sell Apple hardware, like Amazon or Best Buy.If you have access to another power adapter from a previous Mac notebook, keep in mind that you can use a compatible charger of a higher wattage than your MacBook, but using a charger with a lower wattage may not provide enough juice. The type of connection plug may be easier to visually identify than the wattage, but for those who still have their chargers and need to replace them, the technical information is printed in tiny type on the side of the square white power-plug end of the cord.For those with PC laptops, check with your manufacturer about replacement power cords and where to buy them. Many third-party substitutes are available, but read the reviews and technical information before purchasing.
VICTORIA, Texas — A fire early Saturday morning destroyed a mosque in Texas that was burglarized a week ago and vandalized several years ago, officials said.A convenience store clerk spotted smoke and flames billowing from the Islamic Center of Victoria around 2 a.m. and called the fire department.“It’s sad to stand there and watch it collapse,” Shahid Hashmi, the Islamic center’s president, said. “The fire was so huge.”Investigators said the fire’s cause had not been determined. Tom Legler, the Victoria fire marshal, said he had asked for help from the Texas Fire Marshal’s Office and the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.Mr. Hashmi said the authorities had told him it was too early to speculate on how the fire started.“We don’t have any lead or information as to what started the fire and what happened,” he said.He said the congregation’s imam was awake in the early morning, checked online surveillance of the mosque and found that the alarm was not turned on and the doors were unlocked.“He was worried about it and drove over there,” Mr. Hashmi said. “By that time, fire engines were already there, pouring water on the fire.”Mr. Hashmi, who has lived in Victoria for 32 years, said the mosque’s congregation of about 140 has enjoyed the support of the city, which is about 115 miles southwest of Houston. He said he had already received offers of temporary quarters for his congregation. The mosque was built in 2000.“When 9/11 happened, Muslims and non-Muslims, we all got together,” he said. “Of course we will rebuild.”On Jan. 21, someone broke into the center and stole laptops and other electronic items.The local newspaper, The Victoria Advocate, reported Saturday that in July 2013, a man admitted to painting “H8,” a computer shorthand for “hate,” on the outside of the building.
With its bone-dry grasslands and oppressive heat, the middle of the Namib Desert may seem like a strange place to go fishing. Yet there Jennifer Guyton and Tyler Coverdale were, standing in a sea of orange sand and brittle yellow grass with their 30-foot carp pole.But the two Princeton graduate students weren’t trying to catch some sort of desert-dwelling dogfish or a literal “sand shark.” That would be absurd. Instead, they had swapped the hook with a camera so they could investigate the scenery around something much more scientifically sensible: fairy circles.That is what scientists call the mysterious bald spots speckled across Namibia’s grasslands. The rings are six feet to 115 feet wide and are regularly spaced out in a hexagon or honeycomb pattern. As their ethereal name would imply, fairy circles have long bewildered researchers as to their origins. But a new study published on Wednesday in the journal Nature that Ms. Guyton and Mr. Coverdale were involved in seeks to offer some insights into how the enchanting landscapes may have formed.Although the name fairy circles sounds sweet and peaceful, there is passionate scientific disagreement over how they arise, and the two prevailing hypotheses have become adversaries in the dispute.One side suggests that termites, locked in never-ending competition with neighboring colonies, create the circles as they fight for dominance and resources. The other says that perpetually thirsty plants simultaneously assist and compete with their neighbors’ roots, causing the vegetation to “self-organize” into the patterns.The new study suggests that termites and plants may be jointly responsible for forming fairy circle landscapes in Namibia. And it has received mixed reviews from scientists entrenched in the dispute.“We thought both sides of the debate bring in compelling arguments for each of these mechanisms, so why should it be one or the other?” said Corina Tarnita, an ecologist from Princeton University and the study’s co-lead author.Dr. Tarnita worked with Juan Bonachela, a mathematician from the University of Strathclyde in Scotland, to test the termite and plant explanations in a computer model. They found that either hypothesis could generate the fairy circle features. But when they tested both mechanisms together, the model revealed a second, smaller pattern hidden within the clumps of grass between the fairy circles.“Everyone was focusing on the circles and not what was happening in between them,” said Robert M. Pringle, an ecologist at Princeton and another author on the paper.The next step for the team was to confirm that this second vegetation pattern existed in nature. So they sent Ms. Guyton and Mr. Coverdale to Namibia in 2015 with their camera and fishing pole.Ms. Guyton said that each of the grassy patterns was as different as fingerprints, but were mathematically similar. By comparing the photos with their model, the team verified that the second pattern did exist in the grass surrounding the Namibian fairy circles. That finding, they said, confirmed that their mathematics reflected reality and suggested that only by interacting together could insects and plants create the landscape that characterizes Namibian fairy circles.Some fairy circle experts firmly placed in either team termite or team plant had strong doubts about the paper’s findings, while others welcomed it.Norbert Juergens, a biologist from the University of Hamburg in Germany who published the study that said termites engineer fairy circles agreed with the overall findings and said that he hoped they would “be an eye-opener for all those who since 2013 questioned the termite hypothesis.”Stephan Getzin, an ecologist at the Helmholtz Centre for Environmental Research in Leipzig, Germany, was not persuaded, saying in an email that the paper was unable to account for the presence of fairy circles where sand termites were completely absent, as in Australia.“Logically, if there are fairy circles without the presence of termites, the termite theory cannot be considered as a strong explanation for the phenomenon,” he said.Dr. Tarnita responded that their model showed that both termites and plants could make the fairy circles, but that the entire system, which includes the vegetation and the small-scale patterns seen in the Namibian fairy circles, needed both.Walter R. Tschinkel, a retired entomologist from Florida State University who was not involved in the study, said in an email that the assumptions the team made about termites in their computer model were untested.“There is no evidence that the real termite Psammotermes allocerus does what the computer ‘termite’ does,” he said.But Max Rietkerk, an environmental scientist from Utrecht University in the Netherlands, said that the authors showed that the two hypotheses could have worked together in Namibia’s fairy circles. He also agreed, however, that the argument could use more empirical evidence.Dr. Pringle defended the use of their model, pointing out that it drove the team to discover new empirical evidence that no one had found before, the small-scale grass patterns.Despite the team’s attempt to solve the mystery, it seems the fairy circle scuffle flutters on.
The surface of the moon may soon be dotted with corporate logos, and its craters labeled with slogans. Families might be able to send their loved ones’ ashes — or even their pets’ remains — for lunar burial.Entrepreneurs hope that commercial ventures expand in lucrative ways in later years. In a farther, fanciful future, for example, the moon could be mined for platinum, a valuable metal, or helium-3, to be used as fuel for fusion energy reactors that do not yet exist.Private access to the moon grew a little closer to reality on Tuesday, when the X Prize Foundation, with prizes financed by Google, chose five teams of private entrepreneurs who say they can get to the moon by the end of this year.If any of them succeeds — the deadline has been pushed back several times — it could usher in an era of extraterrestrial commerce and renew interest in our long-ignored moon.“It’s incentivized this whole business of the niche space economy,” said Chanda Gonzales-Mowrer, a senior director at the X Prize Foundation, which runs the contest.The five finalist teams span the globe: Moon Express in the United States, Hakuto in Japan, SpaceIL in Israel, Team Indus in India, and Synergy Moon, an international collaboration.The X Prize Foundation was founded by Peter H. Diamandis, an entrepreneur who wanted to use competitions to encourage technological innovation in the way that aviation prizes in the early 20th century helped transform airplanes from a dangerous avocation of barnstormers to a commonplace mode of transportation.The first X Prize award of $10 million in 2004 went to the first private spaceship that could take people 62 miles up, into outer space. That led to the founding of Richard Branson’s Virgin Galactic, which aims to take tourists to the edge of space for a few minutes of weightlessness.The foundation began a similar competition in 2007 to point attention to the moon. To win the top $20 million prize, a spacecraft must land on the moon, move 500 meters and send back video and photographs. The second team to accomplish the task wins $5 million. The contest also offers $5 million in bonus prizes, for feats like surviving the cold lunar night and traveling more than 5,000 meters on the surface.The next 11 months are a dash to finish team designs, assemble spacecraft and prepare for launching. And the teams differ on their approaches.Rahul Narayan, the leader of Team Indus, said the engineers had to develop their own computer, software, power system and other components when the initial approach of buying off-the-shelf satellite parts did not work out, increasing costs. Mr. Narayan now estimates the price tag at $70 million to $75 million.The Hakuto team, with a $10 million budget, is not building a lander at all, but hitching a ride for its rover with Team Indus. If Team Indus is the first to land on the moon, its rover and Hakuto’s will race to travel the 500 meters to capture the $20 million prize. Both rovers have a top speed of about 4 inches a second.“We think that we can beat them on the moon,” said Takeshi Hakamada, the leader of Hakuto (pronounced HOCK-tow).For SpaceIL and Synergy Moon, the main goal is not starting a business, but inspiring the next generation. “Kind of like Jacques Cousteau did with ocean exploration,” said Kevin Myrick, a founder of Synergy Moon.Eran Privman, the chief executive of SpaceIL, said attracting the interest of venture capitalists would have been difficult for the company, because the return on investment would have been a couple of decades in the future. So instead of trying to be a profitable business, his team seeks to inspire children in Israel. “Just like Apollo in the United States in the ’60s,” he said.Moon Express, based in Cape Canaveral, Fla., has followed a more conventional business path, soliciting investors. It is building a scaled-down lander to fit into a small, $5 million rocket called Electron, developed by a start-up company, Rocket Lab.It will carry a reflecting mirror experiment that bounces back laser beams from Earth, the same type of experiment that Apollo astronauts left behind on the moon. The lead scientist for the experiment, Douglas Currie, a retired physicist from the University of Maryland, was a key member of the Apollo laser experiments.SpaceIL and Moon Express are eschewing rovers. To fulfill the 500-meter requirement, both instead intend to have their landers lift off and land again.And the companies all still face challenges. Moon Express’s ride, the Electron, has yet to launch even once. “It’s not a blind bet,” Mr. Richards said, but he conceded that it was also not a sure thing. Synergy Moon also plans to launch on an unproven rocket.Yet even some of teams that have dropped out have not given up.Two former competitors, Astrobotic Technology of Pittsburgh and Part-Time Scientists in Berlin are continuing with their moon plans, just not by the end of this year.Astrobotic, which now plans to launch its spacecraft in 2019, has announced partnerships with DHL, the delivery company, and signed up customers for its trips including Elysium Space, which plans to offer the possibility of sending human remains to the moon. “The X Prize is not really the core driving thing anymore,” said John Thornton, Astrobotic’s chief executive.Robert Boehme, the leader of Part-Time scientists, said his team — which is backed by Audi, the carmaker — had a contract to launch in mid-2018. “It’s too risky to try to accelerate it,” he said.Its rover will have the four-ring Audi logo on the front and be called the Audi lunar quattro, echoing the name of one of Audi’s cars.
BEIJING — Zhang Heng barged through an exam-room door, surprising a doctor and a patient. He didn’t have time to knock. In Mr. Zhang’s business, every second counts.“You have to hand it directly to the person,” said Mr. Zhang, one of the legions of package couriers in Beijing who help power China’s online shopping boom. He spoke as he blitzed through a surgical wing, medical storeroom and patient ward delivering parcels small and large, soft and square, to doctors and nurses in an effort to ensure the right person gets the right package.“Otherwise,” Mr. Zhang said, “you may get fined.”The Chinese e-commerce industry has been built on the backs of couriers — called kuaidi, or express delivery, in China — like Mr. Zhang. They number 1.2 million, by one survey, and online retailers like Alibaba use them to zip packages to customers by scooter or three-wheeled electric cart. Across China, the world’s largest market for package delivery, a courier shouting “kuaidi!” through a door or a phone signals your package has arrived.But for the couriers — who are largely unskilled workers from China’s interior — the work can be low-paying and difficult. It is coming under scrutiny from labor activists and legal experts who say many couriers face punishing hours and harsh working conditions.Nearly one-quarter of them work more than 12 hours a day, seven days a week, according to the survey, which covered 40,000 couriers and was conducted by Beijing Jiaotong University and Alibaba’s research and logistics arms. A majority work more than eight hours a day each day of the week.Labor standards in the industry vary widely, but many couriers work under arrangements that might, for example, provide no overtime pay or no employer contributions to their government health care and pension benefits. Just as in the United States, where Uber drivers and many others work as contractors, those arrangements raise questions about what defines work and employment.Couriers, meanwhile, complain about fines. Some delivery companies penalize them if they do not deliver all the morning’s packages by 2 p.m. Poor penmanship, damage to a package or customer complaints can also result in fines, which can add up to a week’s pay.“I’m here to make money,” said Mr. Zhang, a 28-year-old former coal miner from Shanxi Province who is saving money to build a home, widely seen in the countryside as indispensable in attracting a wife. “If I’m not diligent now, I’m going to regret it. I’m almost 30 and still single.”China hopes to move away from manufacturing and seeks to build a more service-oriented economy driven by accountants, lawyers and other professionals. Yet for migrant workers at the bottom of the pay scale, service work can mean conditions not unlike those in China’s factories, where lax enforcement has long led to excessive overtime and unsafe conditions.Some couriers work directly for companies such as JD.com, an e-commerce retailer, or SF Express, a delivery service. Others drive for a group of delivery companies that dominate the business of ferrying packages on behalf of online retailers like Alibaba. One of those companies, ZTO Express, last year raised $1.4 billion in a share offering on the New York Stock Exchange.Those companies run nationwide distribution networks but rely on smaller companies for last-mile delivery — and there the relationships can become murky. Those smaller companies, which are franchisees of the big delivery companies, sign up drivers as employees or contractors. Some of those drivers subcontract their work to other drivers.Those arrangements often result in couriers who drive under the name of a big delivery company but whose hours and terms are only loosely managed, experts say. For example, many drivers lack workers’ compensation benefits or insurance in case of accidents, said Jin Yingjie, a professor specializing in labor law at the China University of Political Science and Law.Delivery companies “should work to bring the industry into the confines of the labor law,” she said.Meanwhile, tough conditions have led to unrest among couriers, said Keegan Elmer, a researcher for China Labor Bulletin, a workers’ rights group based in Hong Kong. His group has seen disputes in a number of Chinese cities, he said, along with a rise in strikes as economic growth slows.“The delivery companies are pushing drivers to the point of taking collective action,” Mr. Elmer said.In December, a weeklong strike brought deliveries by one package company partly owned by Alibaba, YTO Express, to a halt in Baoji, a city in Shaanxi Province.“Where’s our October pay?” one of the deliverymen told a local TV station. “There needs to be someone in charge handling this. There’s nobody.”A spokeswoman for YTO Express said the strike was caused by a franchisee who did not promptly calculate fees or properly communicate with couriers.“Alibaba is a leader in big data technology,” an Alibaba spokesman said in a statement. “Taking advantage of that strength, we are committed to helping the logistics industry improve its efficiency and the working conditions for couriers and other industry participants.”Most couriers make about $300 to $600 a month, according to the Jiaotong study — an amount roughly equal to the wages of China’s migrant factory workers. They can deliver 150 packages on a weekday, drivers said, sometimes helped by making mass deliveries to office buildings.Couriers generally make about 15 cents per package delivered, according to drivers and reports in the state news media, though they can make more by picking up outgoing packages from customers or through other tasks.The work initially appealed to many as package volume boomed. But their pay per package has barely budged in recent years as competition intensified and more drivers entered the market. About 40 percent of couriers quit within a year, according to the Jiaotong study.“Most deliverymen are like me,” said Lu Yong, who quit in December. “They work for three months and realize it’s no good.”Mr. Lu, 29, of Henan Province, spent years assembling electronics in the southern province of Guangdong before going to work for a ZTO Express franchisee in Beijing. “The factories lack the same freedom as delivery, but it’s not cold like here,” he said. “And every month you get four days of rest, too.”Mr. Lu’s November pay slip showed that he was paid $382 on 4,291 packages delivered, after fines and other expenses including his uniform. He says he pays for maintenance on his cart, which bears ZTO’s logo, including new tires, replacement batteries and new brakes. He also said he never signed a labor contract.James Guo, the chief financial officer of ZTO Express, said that it required its franchisees to comply with local laws but that “it’s not up to us to manage or control the compensation of our deliverymen.”Some thrive. Li Pengbo, 21, from Henan Province, drives for Best Express, another large delivery company in which Alibaba owns a stake. He dominates the area he subcontracted from a Best Express franchisee, he said, and earns about $2,000 a month.“Since the sixth day of the last Chinese New Year until now I haven’t rested, not a single day,” Mr. Li said, describing an 11-month stretch. “I work from 6:30 in the morning until 11 or 12 p.m. at night.”“My family is poor. This bitterness is nothing compared to what they’ve gone through,” he said.A spokeswoman for Best Express said its franchisees were required to follow labor laws.Franchisees say they have borne the brunt of declining delivery prices. “If we can turn a profit eight months of the year, that’s not bad,” said Wang Lin, a franchisee in Beijing for another delivery company, STO Express.Ms. Wang said her franchise does not pay for driver benefits because the drivers are contractors, not employees.“Frankly it’s not a very good job,” she said. “It’s extremely tiring, the salary is not high, and the responsibility and risks are great. We don’t have a stable work force.”
LONDON — It had all been going so well.Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain had just left Washington on Friday evening after a tense but successful first visit with President Trump for a 10-hour flight to Ankara, Turkey, for her next awkward encounter, with the increasingly autocratic Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan.By the time she had landed in Turkey, however, Mr. Trump had signed his executive order halting entrance to the United States of all Syrian refugees and of most citizens from seven predominantly Muslim countries, including dual nationals. Mrs. May was beginning to feel the backlash.After she termed the executive order an American issue, criticism erupted even among her own members of Parliament. She was accused of appeasement by a former British diplomat. Protesters gathered outside Downing Street on Monday night, and more than 1.5 million signatures collected on an internet petition demanding that Mrs. May rescind her invitation for Mr. Trump to visit Queen Elizabeth II.A close relationship with any American president is regarded as crucial by allies and foes alike, but especially by intimates like Britain, Canada, Japan and Mexico. Yet like moths to the flame, the leaders of those nations are finding that they draw close at their peril.While Mrs. May is the latest prominent figure to suffer repercussions for her handling of Mr. Trump, the leaders of those other three close allies have also felt the sting of public anger soon after what seemed to be friendly telephone calls or encounters. They then find themselves facing a no-win situation, either openly criticizing the leader of their superpower ally or pulling their punches and risking severe criticism at home.One Western leader to escape this fate so far is the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, who has kept a cool distance from Mr. Trump. In a telephone call on Saturday, she reminded him of Washington’s obligations under the Geneva Conventions to accept refugees fleeing war, a view underlined by her official spokesman.The danger of playing nice with Mr. Trump should come as little surprise to his country’s allies. Besides campaigning on an “America First” platform, he has regularly argued that allies have been taking the United States for a ride, in trade, security and financial terms.While he has been cordial in public settings with the leaders of those allied nations, Mr. Trump has turned on them soon afterward.“The problem for May is that Trump doesn’t value relationships. He values strength and winning,” said Jeremy Shapiro, the director of research at the European Council on Foreign Relations and a former senior State Department official. “If you rush to the White House to offer a weak hand of friendship, you guarantee exploitation.”While Mr. Trump’s executive order was clearly not aimed at Britain, he signed it on Friday, just a few hours after Mrs. May left. “You can show up at his doorstep and hold his hand so he doesn’t fall down a ramp, but that doesn’t mean a few hours later when he’s signing an order he thinks at all about how it affects you, your politics or your citizens,” Mr. Shapiro said.Particularly problematic for Mrs. May was her offering the invitation to Mr. Trump to undertake a state visit with Queen Elizabeth II this year, which was accepted. The internet petition to Parliament calling for the cancellation of the invitation says the visit “would cause embarrassment to Her Majesty the Queen.”By Monday evening in Britain, there had been more than 1.5 million signatures, and some were enjoying themselves watching the numbers rise in real time. At a large protest outside Downing Street, people urged Mrs. May to cancel the state visit and said that while relations with Washington were important, they should be cooler toward Mr. Trump.Amber Curtis, 21, a film student who is half-British and half-Iranian, said that she worried for her family and friends in America. “It sends a bad message if he comes here after this ban,” Ms. Curtis said of Mr. Trump. “I wouldn’t say that I want no relationship at all, but he cannot come here under the terms of this ban. The terms need to be renegotiated.”Negma Yamin, 50, a teacher of Pakistani origin, was in tears. “I’m so upset as a fellow Muslim; I hate the persecution,” she said. Mrs. May “should absolutely have no relationship with him,” she added. “You can’t negotiate with a person like that. What is he going to do with the people? He’s dividing the U.S., he’s dividing the world.”On Monday, Downing Street insisted that the invitation stood. But who knows how Mr. Trump will react?The Mexican president, Enrique Peña Nieto, has had a similar experience to Mrs. May’s — twice. Last year, in the name of conciliation and dialogue, he invited Mr. Trump to Mexico, a somewhat questionable move given Mr. Trump’s contempt for Mexico and his promises to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement, raise tariffs, deport millions of Mexicans, and build (or finish) a border wall and make the southern neighbor of the United States pay for it.The visit was widely viewed in Mexico as a national humiliation. It left Mr. Trump looking stronger and Mr. Peña Nieto looking weaker, especially when Mr. Trump, in an immigration policy speech in Phoenix the same day, insisted again that Mexico would pay for the wall.Mr. Peña Nieto persisted after Mr. Trump’s election, apparently aiming, like Mrs. May, to influence the new president and to moderate what many hoped was just hyperbolic campaign talk. But just before the two men were to meet in Washington, Mr. Trump issued executive orders calling for the wall and greatly restricting immigration.Mr. Peña Nieto called off the meeting only when Mr. Trump threatened on Twitter to cancel it unless Mexico agreed to pay for the wall.Embarrassed and cornered, Mr. Peña Nieto moved first, an act of defiance that provided a rare moment of public approval for the unpopular president. But given the importance of bilateral ties, he did speak to Mr. Trump the next morning for an hour, without setting a new date to meet.“This is neither a victory nor a defeat,” said Fernando Dworak, an analyst in Mexico City. “It is the bell ringing in a boxing match.”Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan has the distinction of being among the first to feel the sting of Mr. Trump’s actions. In a meeting in November in New York, Mr. Abe urged Mr. Trump, then the president-elect, not to abandon a major trade deal, the Trans-Pacific Partnership.One of Mr. Trump’s first actions in office was to abandon the deal, which many considered a victory for China, even though the pact had already been blocked in the Senate. Mr. Trump has long questioned the United States’ financial and military commitment to Japan’s security, and he has criticized the automaker Toyota for planning to produce cars in Mexico.An editorial in the Mainichi Shimbun, a center-right paper in Japan, questioned why Mr. Abe was not taking a stronger stand against Mr. Trump: “It is hard to understand why the prime minister is defending a president who destroyed the trade accord — formed after nearly six years of arduous negotiations — on his fourth day in office.”Given the stakes, Mr. Abe has refrained from open criticism of Mr. Trump and is scheduled to meet with him in Washington early in February.The Trump effect has been felt even in Australia, where Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull has come under criticism for saying it is not his job to comment on the domestic policies of other countries. This after securing a pledge from the president on Sunday to honor an Obama administration agreement to accept refugees detained on the Pacific islands of Nauru and Manus.In Canada, too, the prime minister, Justin Trudeau, has had his Trump moments. Mr. Trump is deeply unpopular in the country, but as Mr. Trudeau’s father, former Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, once said, proximity to America “is in some ways like sleeping with an elephant; no matter how friendly or temperate the beast, one is affected by every twitch and grunt.”So instead of provoking a fight, Mr. Trudeau moved swiftly to make contact with officials in the new administration and reshaped his cabinet to promote ministers with experience in the United States.Mr. Trump made problems right away for the Canadian leader by giving the go-ahead to the Keystone XL pipeline, putting Mr. Trudeau in an uncomfortable position between environmentalists and oil producers.If Mr. Trump goes after Canada on trade issues, as seems likely, Mr. Trudeau is expected to become significantly more vocal and critical.But to date he has avoided public criticism of the American president, a reticence that may have helped over the weekend, after Mr. Trump’s executive order on immigration. Canada was able to get quick clarification from the White House that the directive would not affect the movement of Canadian citizens and dual nationals into the United States.After fumbling its initial response, Britain got essentially the same clarification 15 hours later, which London hailed as a result of its special relationship with Mr. Trump. While Britain may have been influential, however, the White House was already narrowing the initial interpretations of the executive order.But not before Mrs. May was attacked for timidity in the face of outrage by her own legislators and by the opposition.Still, the “special relationship” has never been an equal one, so some degree of humiliation often goes with the territory.As one message on Twitter, posted by the user @Locke1689, a professed “progressive conservative,” read: “Actively snubbing the world’s only superpower would be gross diplomatic self-harm.”
After President Trump and the Republican-controlled Congress vowed to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, millions of Americans have been left wondering about the future of their health care. We asked readers to tell us how they would be affected if the law were repealed. These are some of their stories, condensed and edited for clarity.Katie Wertz, 33, AlbuquerqueI have three separate diagnosed mental disorders, including chronic depression, severe anxiety/panic disorder and PTSD that make me ineligible for health insurance. It’s expensive to treat; I take a combination of five medications and see two doctors a month. It used to cost nearly a thousand dollars every month out of pocket for treatment uninsured. Without treatment, my condition is life-threatening and I’ve almost died on a couple of occasions.Because of the A.C.A., I can treat my conditions for a fraction of the cost, live a healthy productive life and work a job that I love that enables me to have my own apartment, car, savings even. I remember my friend and I reading what would now be covered, under the A.C.A, out loud to each other and laughing and crying like our team had just won the Super Bowl.I’m absolutely terrified of what will happen if I lose all of this. I don’t want to go back down that long dark tunnel again. I don’t think I’ll survive it. The A.C.A is flawed yes, but instead of yanking it from the people who desperately need it, like me, why can’t it stay in place while we fix it?Allison Maurer, 31, Harrisburg, Pa.It would significantly improve my life: lower premiums, more quality care, and more choices. We paid $486 per month last year for my daughter and me, plus the $4000 for my son’s birth. We later switched to my husband’s employer plan and were able to pay $552 for all three of us. I didn’t even consider signing up with HealthCare.gov again because it would have easily been $700 for all three of us, with a deductible that would have bankrupted us if I had another health issue that required intervention.Before my premiums started paying for everyone else’s subsidies, we could afford reasonable health care plans at a reasonable rate. Obamacare has just increased the cost and not improved the lives of those who are in the middle class.Deanna Sorenson, 49, Mount Pleasant, UtahI live in a very rural part of Utah, in one of the poorer counties in the state. There are very few job opportunities here, unless you work at the coal mine or the prison. My sister and I have started a small online business. We eke out a living on it, but wouldn’t be able to afford insurance without the subsidies.If I had to go back to the corporate world to get insurance, I would leave Utah altogether. That would mean I wouldn’t be here supporting small businesses in a struggling rural community. I wouldn’t be providing a supplemental income for the women we have partnered with locally—a stay-at-home mom, a grandmother and a mother of nine whose husband can’t work due to medical issues all bring in extra income through our business that runs as a collective on Etsy.com.If the A.C.A is repealed, I will not have insurance and would take the risk. If something big happened I would have to declare bankruptcy or find a job in another state that provided insurance. The A.C.A allows people to leave the corporate world and become small business owners!Joseph Hugues, 62, Little River, S.C.It would help me. I am 62 years old and I had purchased insurance — the Silver Plan through the marketplace — for 2016 and it was horrible. I live in South Carolina, and the only company offering insurance for 2017 is Blue Cross Blue Shield. I had purchased the insurance, then I found out that they will not cover me at all if I leave the state. I spend 3 to 5 months a year up north. This insurance is useless to me. My premiums were $875 a month and I had to spend $7300 before it even kicked in. I got a refund for my first month’s premium and now for the first time in my life I have no insurance. It is cheaper for me to pay the fine.Aisha Crossley, 38, Las VegasMy job offers health insurance but to cover my entire family it would be $250 deducted out of every check as well as a $3,000 deductible I would need to meet before my insurance plan kicked in. I have four kids, one of who is in college, and there was just no way I could afford that.The Affordable Care Act allowed my children to be insured with a premium that I could afford! If I didn’t have this my family would have gone uninsured or I would have had to decide between food or a doctor visit. Thank goodness it hasn’t come to that!Rachele Krivichi, 26, Menomonee Falls, Wis.I would not be able to work for my amazing employer, which is the best job I have ever had in my whole life, who does not offer insurance because they have fewer than 50 full-time employees. It is a start-up company in Milwaukee and I am a manager at the company. The A.C.A allows me to work for them and allows them to operate as a business.Although I realize some people’s situations are more life-or-death than mine, I believe an important aspect of the A.C.A is its empowerment of small businesses, and for those who wish to work outside the corporate structure. I would have to find another job where I would not be as happy.Lynn Layman, 61, Hershey, Pa.Right now, my husband and I chose to go without insurance for the first time in our lives. Why? Because my husband, 64, is self-employed and makes over $65,000 a year and I do not get any benefits elsewhere. We do not qualify for any subsidies. Our quoted premiums from a choice of only three companies doing business in our area were over $2,000 a month and a $7,000-plus deductible. We are both in our 60s and nonsmokers and healthy!! So we decided to wait and see what happens in the next three months rather than pay this astronomical amount! And this is constitutional?It doesn’t help that much that we can deduct our premiums at tax time so we’d rather pay the penalty and save our $2,000 a month and self-pay if we need to go to a doctor.Rosanna Armendariz, 43, El PasoIt would be terrible for my husband and me. We have no other means to get affordable health care that will cover our pre-existing conditions. My husband is self-employed and therefore has no employer-based health plan, and I am a stay at home parent to our 8-year-old son with autism.Our son receives Medicaid and I am also very concerned about proposed cuts to Medicaid, and the Republican party’s desire to turn it over to the states in block grants. The Republican plan for health care is no plan. Many sick and disabled people will be left out in the cold.Gillian Rhodes, 29, Endicott, N.Y.My husband and I run our own business of which we are the only employees. Our health insurance options are limited, costly and have an insanely high deductible. We purchased insurance through the A.C.A. because it’s our only choice. In order to get a plan that’s lower than our mortgage payment, we have to accept options where virtually nothing is covered and deductibles are upward of $15,000. This isn’t affordable care.We make enough money that we don’t qualify for any subsidies, but not enough money where spending thousands of dollars a month on health insurance is some insignificant drop in the bucket. But even though I think about all of the money we’d save on a regular basis, going without health insurance was never really an option for my husband or I.We’re both healthy, and in all of the time we’ve been on the insurance plan that we buy on the exchange, we’ve never submitted a claim. The few times we’ve needed minor health care services, we’ve paid in cash. We’ve never come close to hitting our deductible and we get a better rate if we pay in cash. However, we know that one accident or hospital stay without insurance could absolutely devastate us financially. We just can’t take that risk.Patricia Evans, 32, Kelseyville, Calif.If I lost my health insurance that I purchased under the A.C.A I would have two options. I could get the “family plan” through my husband’s employer, which would cost somewhere between $7,000 and $7,500 annually. Or I could get divorced. This option is financially more affordable, but I can’t believe we are considering such an emotional expense.If we got divorced, I could get MediCal, the low-income option in California for which I am currently ineligible due to our combined income. This issue is on my mind when every morning when I wake up — I worry about losing my coverage constantly.Antonio Rodriguez, 41, San AntonioIt can’t be worse than it is now. I got my family covered under a HealthCare.gov plan but the deductibles and out of pocket are so much that we’re being forced to go down to one car and possibly sell our home to pay medical bills.Masha Chepovetsky, 31, San FranciscoI probably would lose my health insurance. Or go back to the awful insurance I had before. The only type of insurance I could afford before the Affordable Care Act had a $10,000 deductible and cost about $350 per month. Now I have a plan with a $750 deductible and it covers checkups right away.After I left my start-up job in 2012, I didn’t have health insurance for four years. With a pre-existing diagnosis of anxiety and depression, although both were under control, the premiums available to me were prohibitively high. I was either getting alternative treatments or, after being diagnosed with an autoimmune disorder, saw specialists who didn’t accept insurance. So while I worried about what would happen in case of an accident, I was happy not to pay for an insurance policy I felt I didn’t need.When the A.C.A. was introduced I was very unhappy and refused to pay a monthly premium for a service I wasn’t going to use on top of my medical bills. About a year ago though, my health took a turn and I knew that I would need more testing and doctors’ visits than I had the resources for, so I enrolled.Since I got insurance in February I’ve been diagnosed with several medical conditions, and they are not well-controlled like my anxiety and depression had been before I enrolled in the A.C.A. Even if approval for patients with pre-existing conditions remains mandatory, if the A.C.A is repealed, my premiums will become untenable.Catheryn Koss, 43, Lawrence, Kan.My husband and I, both 43, were able to go back to school in midlife. I now have a Ph.D. in gerontology and he is finishing a law degree, and we have been able to obtain affordable insurance thanks to the A.C.A. I am looking for an academic teaching position and likely to be unemployed until August even if my job search is successful. We are counting on the A.C.A. to get us through 2017.David W. Wormuth, 52, SyracuseI’m a chest surgeon and I don’t have Obamacare, but it’s critical for my patients. I treat mostly lung and esophageal cancer. Repealing Obamacare without a replacement would be a disaster for my patients. You can’t get your cancer treated in the E.R.
BARCELONA, Spain — President Trump’s travel ban disrupted the plans of hundreds of people around the globe, but perhaps none more vulnerable than Sham Aldaher, an infant Syrian refugee girl, and her family.Sham was born without an eye and with a seriously disfigured face. Following two complex operations at a Barcelona hospital, Sham is due to receive an eye prosthesis next Wednesday. Her family had then planned to resettle in the United States.They had already completed the required interviews and cleared all security checks before the plans were blocked by President Trump’s  executive order to bar citizens from Syria and six other Muslim-majority countries seen as threatening to America’s safety.“They were travel-ready, and they are now barred,” said Jayne Fleming, the head of the human rights team at Reed Smith, an American law firm that has been helping Sham and her family. Ms. Fleming and her team are now scrambling to see whether Britain, Germany or another country could instead welcome the family. “They’re distressed over not knowing what the future holds for them.”The Aldahers’ story is a nomadic tragedy, telling of the accumulated hardships that have been piled on many Syrian refugees. It is also a small but striking example of the broader crisis highlighted in a United Nations report issued on Tuesday showing that the children most in need of emergency international assistance come from five of the seven countries covered by President Trump’s order.Sham’s parents left Syria and their jobs as teachers in 2013. They traveled with their three children to Lebanon and then Egypt. But their arrival coincided with the unrest and military coup that removed Mohamed Morsi as Egypt’s president.“We left our home to find safety, but in Egypt there were bombings in the night and the children were very afraid,” said Ali Aldaher, Sham’s father.So the family packed up again to join thousands of other Syrian refugees in Jordan. Sham was born there in July 2015, on the day of the Muslim holiday of Eid al-Fitr. The coincidence was seen as a blessing by her parents, but it complicated Sham’s birth, as most local hospital workers were on vacation and the family could not find a doctor.Even though a midwife eventually assisted in the birth, Sham’s mother “did not receive the health care she needed and I’m sure all the stress hurt,” Mr. Aldaher recounted.When Sham was born, her father tried to calm his wife by pretending Sham was keeping one eye shut, even though he could see that she had no eyelid and a misshaped face.“Before the birth of Sham, my worries were how would I support my family, without any work in Jordan and without money,” Mr. Aldaher said. “After she was born, we forgot about food, our problems, ourselves and even our other children to start our new journey of suffering for Sham, to see how we could possibly care for this child.”Sham’s family received assistance from different nongovernmental organizations, including Doctors Without Borders. Lawyers from Reed Smith started searching for a hospital capable of undertaking such advanced surgery, while helping the family apply for resettlement in the United States.The lawyers then delayed the move to America because they could not simultaneously find an American hospital ready to treat Sham at no cost. Instead, the Sant Joan de Déu hospital in Barcelona agreed to help.Entering Spain, however, also proved a struggle. In June 2016, the Spanish government granted Sham’s family permission to travel to Barcelona, shortly after The New York Times published an article about the infant’s plight and Spain’s refusal to grant visas to the whole family.Even before Mr. Trump’s executive order to bar citizens of some countries from entering the United States, on security grounds, many European governments were dragging their feet in meeting their own commitments to welcome more refugees, following a European Union agreement reached in September 2015. By the end of 2016, about 900 refugees had resettled in Spain, out of the quota of 17,377 agreed on by Spain’s government.Sham underwent two major facial surgeries in Barcelona. In August, doctors reset her facial bones, also to make room for an eye orbit. In December, they fissured her skin into an eyelid and implanted fat taken from Sham’s bottom into the artificial orbit, which was then re-covered with a curved plastic shell. Sham is due to receive her eye prosthesis next Wednesday.Dr. Joan Prat, the chief ophthalmologist at the Sant Joan de Déu hospital, said he used a unique technique to “invent a cavity from zero.” The eye surgery was not only difficult but also urgent, because Sham’s face will soon reach a level of development that would make the disfigurement permanent.“Either we did something now or it was game over,” Dr. Prat said. The kind of disorder suffered by Sham, known as anophthalmia, occurs “only every few years,” he added.The surgery was a success, but Dr. Prat said Sham should remain under close monitoring, not only because of her face but also because of other health concerns, including her failure to put on weight. Further surgery will be required to correct facial asymmetries as she grows, while her eye prothesis will also need replacement.Sham and her family were granted residency in Spain until late December. They have been housed in a three-bedroom apartment, a stone’s throw from the Sagrada Família, Barcelona’s emblematic basilica.Ms. Fleming said that the family wanted to live in the United States in large part because Sham could get excellent follow-up medical care there. She acknowledged that the family was now concerned about a backlash against Muslims in America and that “they are distressed by rhetoric that brands them as terrorists.”In Barcelona, Sham’s family has received support from the city, as well as Caritas and other nongovernmental organizations. Sham’s siblings have joined a local school.On a bookshelf, the family keeps a small Quran that is among the few items that traveled with them from Syria. A prayer mat is also pinned to the wall, but the family normally goes to a Barcelona mosque for Friday Prayer.When the girl was born, her mother gave her an ancient name for Syria, Sham. Wherever the family finally ends up living, she said, “one day Sham will ask me what is the meaning of her name and I will at least be able to tell her that it is your country, it is Syria.”
Saddled with $40,000 in college loans, Catherine Berendsohn, 29, struggled to get a web design business off the ground after graduating from Florida State University in 2010. Ms. Berendsohn, an artist-entrepreneur, wanted to rent a storefront and start a roving studio in Monterey, Calif. Her student loans, however, prevented her from getting the money she needed.As she tried to expand her business, Ms. Berendsohn was denied a personal credit card. Her college loan payment was $400 a month at the time. She took on a website project and began to accept other clients in Carmel Valley Village, Calif. But then she lost a commission for a local mural project. Unable to continue to pay her monthly expenses, she shut down her business after three months and moved back home to Miami.Because of the corrosive impact of student debt on start-ups, millennials seem to be the new lost generation of entrepreneurs.Although it is difficult to pin down a direct relationship between college loans and entrepreneurial activity, the weight of student debt appears to be deterring some would-be business owners.Arnobio Morelix, a senior research analyst with the Kaufmann Foundation, co-wrote a study with E. J. Reedy that found that the rise in student debt in recent years coincided with a decline in start-ups.The study found that fewer young people were entering the world of entrepreneurship. The share of new entrepreneurs in the 20- to 34-year-old age group fell to 25 percent in 2014, from nearly 35 percent in 1996.Total student loans rose from around $510 billion in 2007 to more than $1.3 trillion today. Despite an uptick in recent years, “overall start-up activity for adults under 35 years of age has been on the decline” since 1996, Mr. Morelix found.“Young adults, who used to be the largest age group involved in new companies in 1996,” Mr. Morelix and Mr. Reedy wrote, “are now among the smallest demographic group.”Many young entrepreneurs are unlikely to go to venture capital firms or business incubators, preferring to “bootstrap” — finance their companies with their own money or funds from friends and family members. But being in debt for student loans makes self-financing that much tougher.Even graduates who have begun promising start-ups have found that securing financing when carrying student loans was brutally difficult.Austin Dean, 28, based in Grand Rapids, Mich., started his first business repairing computers in 2007 while he was a student at Grand Valley State. He later had to it shut down after having cash-flow problems.A second business, started in 2012 while he was pursuing an M.B.A., focused on corporate event hosting. But his $40,000 of college loan debt for his undergraduate degree forced him to make some sacrifices along the way, including eating cheap meals.“Every month the question was, ‘Do I have enough to make my student loan payment?’” Mr. Dean said. “The debt is always there, drowning you. Could I have turned around the first business or grown the second business? Personal debt always comes first.”The event business was later bought out by a partner. Now, he is on his third company, called Collective Metrics, which aggregates and measures the effectiveness of community projects.“If I didn’t have student loan payments, I would absolutely put that cash into my business,” Mr. Dean said. “My student loan payments are $550 a month. Right now, we operate on a bare-bones model, just enough to get by and keep things running.” The $24,500 balance remaining on his loan will take him another four years to pay off, he says.The issue may begin long before would-be entrepreneurs are even thinking about life after college. Many are in high school when they start to borrow and are not aware of how student debt might affect their finances later.More than half of students did not bother to calculate their postgraduate loan repayments, according to a report by the Global Financial Literacy Excellence Center at George Washington University, using data from the Finra Investor Education Foundation’s 2015 National Financial Capability Study.According to a new study by NerdWallet, a financial tool website, nearly half of undergraduate students say that they could have borrowed less and still have afforded their educations. “On average, they said they borrowed $11,597 more than they needed for undergraduate study,” the NerdWallet report said.Still, there are options for budding entrepreneurs facing credit challenges. Crowdfunding sites like Indiegogo.com and GoFundMe.com don’t ask for credit reports. Nor is there much, if any, paperwork. Sometimes, simple business concepts can attract thousands of dollars, although getting a lot more than that requires a strong promotional campaign that gets a lot of attention.So-called angel investors can be found through city-based business incubators or sites like funded.com.It’s possible, too, to consolidate student loans and make lower payments. The government has nine repayment options. For example, a borrower whose income drops postgraduation — or is too low to make payments — may qualify for an income-based repayment program. This option, however, has given rise to a questionable industry in which firms claim to offer loan “forgiveness” or consolidation for a fee. Experts note that changes to college-loan repayment plans are free and have to be processed through the government.The nonprofit advocacy group Student Debt Crisis also has resources on how to track and repay loans and get answers to questions about repayment options.Fred Amrein, a financial planner based in Wynnewood, Pa., who specializes in college financing, advises his clients to examine the federal repayment programs before considering defaulting on loans, which may damage a person’s ability to obtain low-cost credit in the future. Many start-up founders pay themselves little or no salary in the beginning, and can qualify for  federal income-driven repayment programs.Mr. Amrein cautioned that such borrowers still have to pay the balance and “interest on the loans may still accrue, depending upon the federal loan type. Yet there’s no reason to default on federal loans.”Entrepreneurs who took out private college loans also have some refinancing options through online services such as SoFi  and Credible.com.Ms. Berendsohn, who says she’s in default on her loans now, wants to continue her education while pursuing her entrepreneurial aspirations. She said that she would like to earn a master’s degree or a Ph.D.Her new company — CEBerendsohn Arts — specializes in “website creation, photography and mural services as well as the creation of creative product lines.”For now, Ms. Berendsohn has to move ahead without much financing. “Right now, my business is a small online and word-of-mouth business,” she said.
The troubles buffeting the nation’s law schools may be on the verge of claiming their first victim.The federal Department of Education told students of the Charlotte School of Law in North Carolina this week that federal student loans — the financial lifeblood for law schools — would not be available. The for-profit school is the first accredited law school to lose access to federal student loans.The Charlotte School said on Thursday that it still planned to open its doors on Monday for spring semester classes.The federal agency took the step to deny loans because the school had failed to disclose to students that it had not followed the admissions and curriculum standards required for law school accreditation. That was a disqualifier for students to receive federal aid, the Department of Education, which oversees the federal student loan program, said.The school is one of three operated by Infilaw Holdings, a group owned by Sterling Partners, a private equity firm with offices in Chicago, Baltimore and Miami. It appealed the department’s preliminary decision last month and reacted angrily on Thursday to the government’s rejection.Federal loans are the chief financing source for the tuition costs of five figures and up in law schools across the country. Charlotte School of Law students received more than $48 million in federal loans last year, according to the Education Department.The Charlotte school had 716 students enrolled in the fall semester, and they pay as much as $45,000 in annual tuition and fees. But the law school’s revenue will be slashed if it remains ineligible for federal student loans.The Charlotte school’s operations have been crippled for weeks as it negotiated with federal officials for a solution to the situation.The negotiations broke down, however, and on Wednesday, Ted Mitchell, the under secretary of education, issued a statement that the school “is no longer recognized to participate in federal student aid programs, and students will not be able to receive federal student aid at C.S.L. for current or future attendance.”The school’s dean, Jay Conison, and its president, Chidi Ogene, argued in a statement that North Carolina law did not permit the federal government’s solution, which was to shutter Charlotte and temporarily allow a “teach-out” plan that would substitute accredited personnel from another law school to take over student instruction.Such a plan, Dean Conison and Mr. Ogene said, “could take place only if we remained an active institution delivering curriculum and awarding degrees” under the supervision of the Florida Coastal Law School, one of the three for-profit Infilaw schools.Barry Currier, managing director of the American Bar Association Section of Legal Education and Admissions to the Bar, said on Thursday that the accrediting body had directed Charlotte to file a teach-out plan.“Given the timeline for the school and its students, we would expect the school to not only file its plan in a timely fashion, but begin executing it,” he said.Charlotte Law insisted on Thursday, in contrast to Mr. Mitchell’s statement, that students who received federal loans for the fall semester were entitled to them for the spring. And, according to Kathy Heldman, vice president for marketing at Infilaw, the company is “exploring private loans (including institutional loans) for students who were not awarded federal direct loans for the spring semester.”While Charlotte officials tried to cast the dispute as federal overreach, the school’s struggles underscore the plight of a number of law schools across the country that are experiencing a decline in applicants and an accompanying decline in revenue. A handful of students pay from personal resources or obtain loans from private sources, but most students rely on federal loans.The federal government permits loans to accredited educational institutions. The decisions on accrediting law schools are made by the American Bar Association, which placed Charlotte on a two-year probation but did not withdraw its accreditation.Probation was not enough, some law critics say, arguing that the association has been ineffective in curbing law schools’ admission of students who are unlikely to pass the bar and obtain legal employment sufficient to pay off their six-figure debt. Some schools report low bar passage rates and job placement rates below 50 percent.“Long ago, the A.B.A. should have stopped protecting marginal law schools, but it’s a victim of its own insularity,” said Steven J. Harper, an adjunct law professor at Northwestern University’s law school and a former partner at Kirkland & Ellis.“At far too many schools, students are amassing staggering educational debt in return for law degrees of dubious value,” he said. “Maybe the department’s action will spur the legal profession to clean its own house before the heavy hand of government does the job for it.”The future looked much different when the Charlotte School of Law opened in the growing Southern financial center in 2006. It is one of three for-profit schools run by Infilaw, which include Florida Coastal and Arizona Summit Law School. Despite fewer students applying and the dearth of jobs requiring bar passage, the three schools roughly doubled their enrollment figures, to nearly 1,200, in recent years.Each of the three schools failed to cross the 40 percent mark for graduates who were employed in full-time jobs requiring passage of a state bar examination.Yet graduates had law school debt that exceeded $140,000 — higher than law schools like those at the University of Virginia, where the job placement rate is 78 percent and average debt is $132,182, or Duke, at 80 percent and $125,406, according to bar association figures.The Charlotte School of Law’s practices, said Kyle McEntee, executive director of Law School Transparency, a nonprofit that works for more openness about law school admissions and financing, “are similar to the educational degree mills that have been shut down in recent years.”The turmoil and uncertainty at Charlotte Law have left students adrift and complaining that they have little or no information just days before spring classes are set to start.Two students have filed a complaint in federal court seeking class-action status against Charlotte Law and Infilaw, accusing them of misleading statements and not disclosing accreditation shortcomings.Some students have already taken a leave of absence or transferred, but the cutoff ends a crucial funding source for students like Daniel A. Herrera, who is halfway through his three-year degree.“I’m not sure what I should do,” said Mr. Herrera, 24, of Bayonne, N.J. “I’m trying to decide if I should focus on transferring to another law school.”Uprooting from Charlotte, where he likes living and volunteers for a civic project, is a hard and expensive choice, he said. But there are no other law schools in the city.Other law schools are reluctant to accept Charlotte Law’s credits, said Arique Ross, 23, who is a third-year student.“They say they are going to open the doors, but there is no money to pay,” Mr. Ross said of Charlotte Law. “When I ask other law schools about transferring, they are indicating that they can only accept some of my credits and I would have to retake classes and have more debt. So I’m really uncertain about what to do.”
In 2004, France banned vending machines from schools. In 2011, it limited servings of french fries to once a week in school cafeterias. A year later, it imposed a “soda tax.” On Friday, the government said no  restaurants can offer free refills of sodas and other sugary drinks.The new regulation is the latest attempt to tackle what the government called a relentless rise in the national obesity rate. Fast-food restaurants, usually foreign chains, are expected to be targeted under the new law.The law, which takes effect immediately, said it aimed to “limit, especially among the young,” the risks of obesity and diabetes.The move by France is in line with recommendations by the World Health Organization, which has urged countries to impose a tax on sugary drinks to battle an increase in obesity, presenting data in 2016 on the beneficial health effects of such a tax.The French are, on average, less overweight than other Europeans and Americans. The share of obese adults (age 18 and older) in France was 15.3 percent in 2014, just below the European Union average, 15.9 percent, according to Eurostat, the statistical office of the European Union. Malta has the highest share of adult obesity of European nations, 26 percent.In the United States, it is 36.5 percent, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.While the overall adult obesity rate in France appears to be relatively low, 57 percent of men and 41 percent of women 30 to 60 years old were overweight or obese, according to a report released in October by Bulletin Épidémiologique Hebdomadaire, the French medical journal.France has been at the forefront of tackling the issue, along with countries like Japan, where a national law requires companies and local governments to measure the waistlines of people between the ages of 40 and 74, and to encourage them to exercise.Mexico added a 10 percent surcharge on sugary drinks in 2014 to reduce alarming levels of diabetes there. After one year, sales of such beverages fell as much as 12 percent, while bottled water purchases rose 4 percent, a study found.Similar efforts are underway in the United States. Philadelphia became the first major city this year to introduce a tax on soda and other sugary drinks, provoking public outrage.In 2012, the New York City health board approved Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg’s plan to ban the sale of large sugary drinks in restaurants and other venues. But a court struck down the proposal in 2013. The Bloomberg administration appealed and lost.The new law has divided the French, who consume fewer soft drinks per capita than residents of most other countries. “Each person has to take responsibility,” a 21-year-old man told the newspaper Le Parisien. Restaurants “might as well put scales in front of each fast-food joint.”
PARIS — The French authorities said on Monday that a teacher who claimed to have been stabbed with scissors and a box cutter at a preschool near Paris had fabricated the story.A police official in Aubervilliers confirmed that the teacher, who has not been identified, admitted to having invented the assault by a supporter of the Islamic State at the Jean Perrin preschool in Aubervilliers, a northern suburb of Paris.It “was a fake attempt, done so that he could have himself transferred” to another job, the official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not allowed to speak to reporters about the episode.A spokeswoman for the Paris prosecutor’s office, Agnès Thibault-Lecuivre, said, “He wounded himself alone in his classroom, before the children arrived,” in what she called the first such instance in France. She said the preschool teacher, 45, was in the hospital for his wounds, which were not life-threatening, and was being questioned further.Earlier in the day she said he had described the attacker as saying, “This is Daesh, this is a warning.” Daesh is an Arabic acronym for the Islamic State, which is also known as ISIS or ISIL.The teacher said that the assailant was wearing a balaclava and gloves and that he then fled.The authorities took the teacher’s claim seriously, beginning a hunt for the assailant as the Paris prosecutor opened a preliminary investigation for attempted murder.Based on information provided by the teacher, the top government official for the Seine-St.-Denis administrative department, Philippe Galli, told reporters that the assailant had entered the preschool around 7:10 a.m. and had attacked the teacher in his classroom with the box cutter and a pair of scissors that he had found on the school premises. The teacher had said that no children or other members of staff had been present at the time, Mr. Galli said.Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, the French education minister, said that the authorities closed the preschool in response to news that there had been an attack, but that it would reopen on Tuesday. She said that the government would continue to bolster security in schools.France has been under a state of emergency since coordinated attacks in and around Paris last month left 130 dead and more than 350 wounded. The Islamic State has claimed responsibility for the assaults, which involved several teams of gunmen and suicide bombers.
MELBOURNE, Australia — The Australian Open offered N.B.A.-style on-court seating for the first time this year, priced at an eye-popping 25,000 Australian dollars, or $18,900, for the men’s final for an up-close-and-personal experience.But when the demand spiked after a Roger Federer vs. Rafael Nadal final was set, those seats might have qualified as a bargain. Fans dug deep into their bank accounts and traveled long distances to witness the improbable rematch between two great Grand Slam champions.Ticket prices for the final, which ranged from about $300 to $600 at face value, quickly spiraled upward. Tickets for under $1,500 for anywhere in Rod Laver Arena were nearly impossible to find; one ambitious Ticketmaster listing offered a pair of front-row seats for about $20,000 each.Jessica Ye and April Liu, Chinese students studying in Melbourne, bought tickets for $1,900 in the hours before the final on the reselling website Viagogo.“It’s jolly worth it,” said Ye, a Federer fan. “Of course, for him, yeah. But if it was anyone else, I wouldn’t do it.”Liu, who brought Spanish and Catalan flags to show her support for Nadal, was equally single-minded. “If only Roger plays, I’m not going to buy it, either,” she said.Some fans who had attended earlier rounds of the tournament and flown home scurried back to Melbourne for the final.Ronny Chow, a lawyer from Hong Kong, attended the first week of the tournament, then booked a last-minute trip back to Melbourne with his wife to see the final.He scheduled a 10-hour stay in Melbourne with nine-hour flights each way. Their plane and match tickets combined for about $19,000, he said.Chow had seen Federer win his 17th Grand Slam title, at Wimbledon in 2012, and said he felt he “shouldn’t miss this one.” So Chow got to witness Federer’s 18th Grand Slam title, too, as Federer defeated Nadal in five sets.“It’s pathological; it’s addictive,” Chow said of his tennis habit.Juliann Greene, from Kailua, Hawaii, had been drawn to Federer’s graceful movements over the years because of her background in dance. She booked a trip to Melbourne for the first three rounds of the tournament, fearing that her chances to see the aging Federer play were running out.Greene extended her trip by three days to see Federer win his fourth-round match against Kei Nishikori, and she flew home to Hawaii before the quarterfinals.Not long after her homecoming, her husband sensed that she would rather be somewhere else.“He said, ‘If it was me, and it was John Elway with the Broncos right before he retired, and somebody said, “Here’s some tickets,” there’s no way I’d come home,’” Greene said. “I said, ‘Don’t tell me that right now!’ He said, ‘Well, it’s true. We totally miss you, but I know this is so big for you.’”Greene’s mind was quickly made up.“So I immediately pulled out my phone and I started checking flights,” she said, laughing. “On the car ride home from the airport. I had just gotten off a 10-and-a-half-hour red-eye, and I started looking at flights.”Greene booked a refundable flight, accounting for a possible quarterfinal loss by Federer. When he advanced to the semifinals, she boarded the flight and arrived two hours before the match.Saskia van Rheenen, a Dutch graduate student, had attended the first week of the tournament before her travels took her to Wanaka, a small town on the South Island of New Zealand. Once Federer reached the final, she could not shake the idea of returning.“I thought, no, it’s too much money, too much hassle,” van Rheenen said. “But I couldn’t stop thinking about it. I was in Wanaka, and I thought if I’m going to do it, I have to do it now, because if Nadal wins, the prices are going to go crazy, and then I can’t afford it anymore.”Van Rheenen went for it, first buying a ticket to the final for about $1,600, then booking a flight to Melbourne for $530.“It is a lot of money, but for me, I thought, I’m never going to get this chance again,” she said. “This is probably their last Grand Slam final against each other, and for me, it was literally my No. 1 bucket list item, a Federer-Nadal match. And I was only a three-hour flight away.”There were no regrets.“Already after the first set, I sent a message to my family: ‘It’s already worth the money,’” she said. “I already forgot about the money. This was, hands down, the best day of my life.”The reseller Ticketbis said that the average price of tickets it handled, including tickets sold before the Federer-Nadal lineup was in place, was up 80 percent from last year’s final and that its international sales doubled.Despite the possible payoff from putting a golden ticket up for sale, many fans who had tickets to what became their dream final said even the loftiest prices had not tempted them.Fiona Wong, an Australian Federer fan who has the Twitter handle @federering, had bought tickets to the finals for the past five years, ultimately selling them once Federer was eliminated.Wong, who attended Federer’s previous six matches at the tournament, said the thought of selling her ticket to the final had never crossed her mind, even when she saw list prices of more than $15,000.“This is so cliché, but it’s priceless to me,” she said. “When am I going to see Federer in a Slam final again? Any amount of money, it wouldn’t matter.”Others left on the outside longed for a close-up view.Jen Gundry, a Nadal fan from Melbourne, balked at the prices at Rod Laver Arena but jumped at the chance to watch the final at Margaret Court Arena, which the tournament opened up to fans who bought grounds passes for about $23. They could watch the match on a video screen inside, and the champion visited with his trophy after the awards ceremony.“It’s a cool idea just to be nearby,” she said.
President Trump signed an executive order on Friday titled “Protecting the Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into the United States.” Following is the language of that order, as supplied by the White House.By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq., and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, and to protect the American people from terrorist attacks by foreign nationals admitted to the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:Section 1. Purpose. The visa-issuance process plays a crucial role in detecting individuals with terrorist ties and stopping them from entering the United States. Perhaps in no instance was that more apparent than the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, when State Department policy prevented consular officers from properly scrutinizing the visa applications of several of the 19 foreign nationals who went on to murder nearly 3,000 Americans. And while the visa-issuance process was reviewed and amended after the September 11 attacks to better detect would-be terrorists from receiving visas, these measures did not stop attacks by foreign nationals who were admitted to the United States.Numerous foreign-born individuals have been convicted or implicated in terrorism-related crimes since September 11, 2001, including foreign nationals who entered the United States after receiving visitor, student, or employment visas, or who entered through the United States refugee resettlement program. Deteriorating conditions in certain countries due to war, strife, disaster, and civil unrest increase the likelihood that terrorists will use any means possible to enter the United States. The United States must be vigilant during the visa-issuance process to ensure that those approved for admission do not intend to harm Americans and that they have no ties to terrorism.In order to protect Americans, the United States must ensure that those admitted to this country do not bear hostile attitudes toward it and its founding principles. The United States cannot, and should not, admit those who do not support the Constitution, or those who would place violent ideologies over American law. In addition, the United States should not admit those who engage in acts of bigotry or hatred (including “honor” killings, other forms of violence against women, or the persecution of those who practice religions different from their own) or those who would oppress Americans of any race, gender, or sexual orientation.Sec. 2. Policy. It is the policy of the United States to protect its citizens from foreign nationals who intend to commit terrorist attacks in the United States; and to prevent the admission of foreign nationals who intend to exploit United States immigration laws for malevolent purposes.Sec. 3. Suspension of Issuance of Visas and Other Immigration Benefits to Nationals of Countries of Particular Concern. (a) The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence, shall immediately conduct a review to determine the information needed from any country to adjudicate any visa, admission, or other benefit under the INA (adjudications) in order to determine that the individual seeking the benefit is who the individual claims to be and is not a security or public-safety threat.(b) The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the President a report on the results of the review described in subsection (a) of this section, including the Secretary of Homeland Security’s determination of the information needed for adjudications and a list of countries that do not provide adequate information, within 30 days of the date of this order. The Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide a copy of the report to the Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence.(c) To temporarily reduce investigative burdens on relevant agencies during the review period described in subsection (a) of this section, to ensure the proper review and maximum utilization of available resources for the screening of foreign nationals, and to ensure that adequate standards are established to prevent infiltration by foreign terrorists or criminals, pursuant to section 212(f) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f), I hereby proclaim that the immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of aliens from countries referred to in section 217(a)(12) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1187(a)(12), would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and I hereby suspend entry into the United States, as immigrants and nonimmigrants, of such persons for 90 days from the date of this order (excluding those foreign nationals traveling on diplomatic visas, North Atlantic Treaty Organization visas, C-2 visas for travel to the United Nations, and G-1, G-2, G-3, and G-4 visas).(d) Immediately upon receipt of the report described in subsection (b) of this section regarding the information needed for adjudications, the Secretary of State shall request all foreign governments that do not supply such information to start providing such information regarding their nationals within 60 days of notification.(e) After the 60-day period described in subsection (d) of this section expires, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the President a list of countries recommended for inclusion on a Presidential proclamation that would prohibit the entry of foreign nationals (excluding those foreign nationals traveling on diplomatic visas, North Atlantic Treaty Organization visas, C-2 visas for travel to the United Nations, and G-1, G-2, G-3, and G-4 visas) from countries that do not provide the information requested pursuant to subsection (d) of this section until compliance occurs.(f) At any point after submitting the list described in subsection (e) of this section, the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security may submit to the President the names of any additional countries recommended for similar treatment.(g) Notwithstanding a suspension pursuant to subsection (c) of this section or pursuant to a Presidential proclamation described in subsection (e) of this section, the Secretaries of State and Homeland Security may, on a case-by-case basis, and when in the national interest, issue visas or other immigration benefits to nationals of countries for which visas and benefits are otherwise blocked.(h) The Secretaries of State and Homeland Security shall submit to the President a joint report on the progress in implementing this orderwithin 30 days of the date of this order, a second report within 60 daysof the date of this order, a third report within 90 days of the date of this order, and a fourth report within 120 days of the date of this order.Sec. 4. Implementing Uniform Screening Standards for All Immigration Programs. (a) The Secretary of State, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall implement a program, as part of the adjudication process for immigration benefits, to identify individuals seeking to enter the United States on a fraudulent basis with the intent to cause harm, or who are at risk of causing harm subsequent to their admission. This program will include the development of a uniform screening standard and procedure, such as in-person interviews; a database of identity documents proffered by applicants to ensure that duplicate documents are not used by multiple applicants; amended application forms that include questions aimed at identifying fraudulent answers and malicious intent; a mechanism to ensure that the applicant is who the applicant claims to be; a process to evaluate the applicant’s likelihood of becoming a positively contributing member of society and the applicant’s ability to make contributions to the national interest; and a mechanism to assess whether or not the applicant has the intent to commit criminal or terrorist acts after entering the United States.(b) The Secretary of Homeland Security, in conjunction with the Secretary of State, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall submit to the President an initial report on the progress of this directive within 60 days of the date of this order, a second report within 100 days of the date of this order, and a third report within 200 days of the date of this order.Sec. 5. Realignment of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program for Fiscal Year 2017. (a) The Secretary of State shall suspend the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP) for 120 days. During the 120-day period, the Secretary of State, in conjunction with the Secretary of Homeland Security and in consultation with the Director of National Intelligence, shall review the USRAP application and adjudication process to determine what additional procedures should be taken to ensure that those approved for refugee admission do not pose a threat to the security and welfare of the United States, and shall implement such additional procedures. Refugee applicants who are already in the USRAP process may be admitted upon the initiation and completion of these revised procedures. Upon the date that is 120 days after the date of this order, the Secretary of State shall resume USRAP admissions only for nationals of countries for which the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence have jointly determined that such additional procedures are adequate to ensure the security and welfare of the United States.(b) Upon the resumption of USRAP admissions, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, is further directed to make changes, to the extent permitted by law, to prioritize refugee claims made by individuals on the basis of religious-based persecution, provided that the religion of the individual is a minority religion in the individual’s country of nationality. Where necessary and appropriate, the Secretaries of State and Homeland Security shall recommend legislation to the President that would assist with such prioritization.(c) Pursuant to section 212(f) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f), I hereby proclaim that the entry of nationals of Syria as refugees is detrimental to the interests of the United States and thus suspend any such entry until such time as I have determined that sufficient changes have been made to the USRAP to ensure that admission of Syrian refugees is consistent with the national interest.(d) Pursuant to section 212(f) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f), I hereby proclaim that the entry of more than 50,000 refugees in fiscal year 2017 would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, and thus suspend any such entry until such time as I determine that additional admissions would be in the national interest.(e) Notwithstanding the temporary suspension imposed pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, the Secretaries of State and Homeland Security may jointly determine to admit individuals to the United States as refugees on a case-by-case basis, in their discretion, but only so long as they determine that the admission of such individuals as refugees is in the national interest — including when the person is a religious minority in his country of nationality facing religious persecution, when admitting the person would enable the United States to conform its conduct to a preexisting international agreement, or when the person is already in transit and denying admission would cause undue hardship — and it would not pose a risk to the security or welfare of the United States.(f) The Secretary of State shall submit to the President an initial report on the progress of the directive in subsection (b) of this section regarding prioritization of claims made by individuals on the basis of religious-based persecution within 100 days of the date of this order and shall submit a second report within 200 days of the date of this order.(g) It is the policy of the executive branch that, to the extent permitted by law and as practicable, State and local jurisdictions be granted a role in the process of determining the placement or settlement in their jurisdictions of aliens eligible to be admitted to the United States as refugees. To that end, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall examine existing law to determine the extent to which, consistent with applicable law, State and local jurisdictions may have greater involvement in the process of determining the placement or resettlement of refugees in their jurisdictions, and shall devise a proposal to lawfully promote such involvement.Sec. 6. Rescission of Exercise of Authority Relating to the Terrorism Grounds of Inadmissibility. The Secretaries of State and Homeland Security shall, in consultation with the Attorney General, consider rescinding the exercises of authority in section 212 of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182, relating to the terrorism grounds of inadmissibility, as well as any related implementing memoranda.Sec. 7. Expedited Completion of the Biometric Entry-Exit Tracking System. (a) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall expedite the completion and implementation of a biometric entry-exit tracking system for all travelers to the United States, as recommended by the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States.(b) The Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the President periodic reports on the progress of the directive contained in subsection (a) of this section. The initial report shall be submitted within 100 days of the date of this order, a second report shall be submitted within 200 days of the date of this order, and a third report shall be submitted within 365 days of the date of this order. Further, the Secretary shall submit a report every 180 days thereafter until the system is fully deployed and operational.Sec. 8. Visa Interview Security. (a) The Secretary of State shall immediately suspend the Visa Interview Waiver Program and ensure compliance with section 222 of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1222, which requires that all individuals seeking a nonimmigrant visa undergo an in-person interview, subject to specific statutory exceptions.(b) To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary of State shall immediately expand the Consular Fellows Program, including by substantially increasing the number of Fellows, lengthening or making permanent the period of service, and making language training at the Foreign Service Institute available to Fellows for assignment to posts outside of their area of core linguistic ability, to ensure that non-immigrant visa-interview wait times are not unduly affected.Sec. 9. Visa Validity Reciprocity.  The Secretary of State shall review all nonimmigrant visa reciprocity agreements to ensure that they are, with respect to each visa classification, truly reciprocal insofar as practicable with respect to validity period and fees, as required by sections 221(c) and 281 of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1201(c) and 1351, and other treatment. If a country does not treat United States nationals seeking nonimmigrant visas in a reciprocal manner, the Secretary of State shall adjust the visa validity period, fee schedule, or other treatment to match the treatment of United States nationals by the foreign country, to the extent practicable.Sec. 10. Transparency and Data Collection. (a) To be more transparent with the American people, and to more effectively implement policies and practices that serve the national interest, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Attorney General, shall, consistent with applicable law and national security, collect and make publicly available within 180 days, and every 180 days thereafter:(i) information regarding the number of foreign nationals in the United States who have been charged with terrorism-related offenses while in the United States; convicted of terrorism-related offenses while in the United States; or removed from the United States based on terrorism-related activity, affiliation, or material support to a terrorism-related organization, or any other national security reasons since the date of this order or the last reporting period, whichever is later;(ii) information regarding the number of foreign nationals in the United States who have been radicalized after entry into the United States and engaged in terrorism-related acts, or who have provided material support to terrorism-related organizations in countries that pose a threat to the United States, since the date of this order or the last reporting period, whichever is later; and(iii) information regarding the number and types of acts of gender-based violence against women, including honor killings, in the United States by foreign nationals, since the date of this order or the last reporting period, whichever is later; and(iv) any other information relevant to public safety and security as determined by the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Attorney General, including information on the immigration status of foreign nationals charged with major offenses.(b) The Secretary of State shall, within one year of the date of this order, provide a report on the estimated long-term costs of the USRAP at the Federal, State, and local levels.Sec. 11. General Provisions. (a) Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:(i) the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or(ii) the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.(b) This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.(c) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
President Trump announced on Tuesday that Neil M. Gorsuch, a federal appeals court judge, was his nominee for the Supreme Court. Following is the transcript of the announcement, held in the East Room of the White House, as prepared by Federal News Service. Read our coverage of the announcement.TRUMP: Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.When Justice Scalia passed away suddenly last February, I made a promise to the American people: If I were elected president, I would find the very best judge in the country for the Supreme Court. I promised to select someone who respects our laws and is representative of our Constitution and who loves our Constitution and someone who will interpret them as written.TRUMP: This may be the most transparent judicial selection process in history. Months ago as a candidate, I publicly presented a list of brilliant and accomplished people to the American electorate and pledged to make my choice from among that list. Millions of voters said this was the single most important issue to them when they voted for me for president.I am a man of my word. I will do as I say, something that the American people have been asking for from Washington for a very, very long time. Today...(APPLAUSE)Thank you. Today I am keeping another promise to the American people by nominating Judge Neil Gorsuch of the United States Supreme Court to be of the United States Supreme Court. And I would like to ask Judge Gorsuch and his wonderful wife, Louise, to please step forward — please, Louise, Judge. Here they come. Here they come.(APPLAUSE)So was that a surprise? Was it?TRUMP: I have always felt that after the defense of our nation, the most important decision a president of the United States can make is the appointment of a Supreme Court justice. Depending on their age, a justice can be active for 50 years and his or her decisions can last a century or more and can often be permanent.I took the task of this nomination very seriously. I have selected an individual whose qualities define — really, and I mean closely define — what we’re looking for. Judge Gorsuch has outstanding legal skills, a brilliant mind, tremendous discipline and has earned bipartisan support. When he was nominated to the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals, he was confirmed by the Senate unanimously. Also — that’s unanimous, can you believe that? Nowadays, with what’s going on?(APPLAUSE)Does that happen anymore? Does it happen? I think it’s going to happen. Maybe it will.Also with us tonight is Maureen Scalia, a woman loved by her husband and deeply respected by all. I am so happy she’s with us. Where is Maureen? Please, stand up. Thank you, Maureen.(APPLAUSE)Thank you, Maureen. She is really the ultimate representative of the late, great Justice Antonin Scalia, whose image and genius was in my mind throughout the decision-making process. Not only are we looking at the writings of the nominee — and I studied them closely — but he is said to be among the finest and most brilliant oftentimes the writings of any judge for a long, long time.And his academic credentials, something very important to me, in that education has always been a priority, are as good as I have ever seen. He received his undergraduate degree from Columbia with honors. He then received his law degree from Harvard, also with honors, where he was a Truman Scholar. After Harvard, he received his doctorate at Oxford, where he attended as a Marshall Scholar, one of the top academic honors anywhere in the world.After law school, he clerked on the Supreme Court for both Justices Byron White and Anthony Kennedy. It is an extraordinary résumé. As good as it gets. Judge Gorsuch was born and raised in Colorado and was taught the value of independence, hard work and public service. While in law school, he demonstrated a commitment to helping the less fortunate. He worked in both Harvard Prison Legal Assistance Projects and Harvard Defenders Program. Brilliance being assured, I studied every aspect of his life. He could have had any job at any law firm for any amount of money, but what he wanted to do with his career was to be a judge, to write decisions and to make an impact by upholding our laws and our Constitution.The qualifications of Judge Gorsuch are beyond dispute. He is the man of our country and a man who our country really needs and needs badly to ensure the rule of law and the rule of justice.I would like to thank Senate leadership. I only hope that both Democrats and Republicans can come together for once for the good of the country.TRUMP: Congratulations to you and your family. May God bless you, may God bless our glorious nation. Judge Gorsuch, the podium, sir, is yours.(APPLAUSE)GORSUCH: Thank you. Mr. President, thank you very much.Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, you and your team have shown me great courtesy in this process, and you’ve entrusted me with a most solemn assignment.Standing here in a house of history, and acutely aware of my own imperfections, I pledge that if I am confirmed I will do all my powers permit to be a faithful servant of the Constitution and laws of this great country.For the last decade, I’ve worked as a federal judge in a court that spans six Western states, serving about 20 percent of the continental United States and about 18 million people. The men and women I’ve worked with at every level in our circuit are an inspiration to me. I’ve watched them fearlessly tending to the rule of law, enforcing the promises of our Constitution and living out daily their judicial oaths to administer justice equally to rich and poor alike, following the law as they find it and without respect to their personal political beliefs. I think of them tonight.Of course, the Supreme Court’s work is vital not just to a region of the country, but to the whole, vital to the protection of the people’s liberties under law and to the continuity of our Constitution, the greatest charter of human liberty the world has ever known.The towering judges that have served in this particular seat of the Supreme Court, including Antonin Scalia and Robert Jackson, are much in my mind at this moment.Justice Scalia was a lion of the law. Agree or disagree with him, all of his colleagues on the bench shared his wisdom and his humor. And like them, I miss him.I began my legal career working for Byron White, the last Coloradan to serve on the Supreme Court, and the only justice to lead the N.F.L. in rushing.(LAUGHTER) He was one of the smartest and most courageous men I’ve ever known. When Justice White retired, he gave me the chance to work for Justice Kennedy, as well. Justice Kennedy was incredibly welcoming and gracious, and like Justice White, he taught me so much. I am forever grateful. And if you’ve ever met Judge David Sentelle, you’ll know just how lucky I was to land a clerkship with him right out of school.Thank you. These judges brought me up in the law. Truly, I would not be here without them. Today is as much their day as it is mine.In the balance of my professional life, I’ve had the privilege of the working as a practicing lawyer and teacher. I’ve enjoyed wonderful colleagues whose support means so much to me at this moment, as it has year in and year out.Practicing in the trial work trenches of the law, I saw, too, that when we judges don our robes, it doesn’t make us any smarter, but it does serve as a reminder of what’s expected of us: Impartiality and independence, collegiality and courage.As this process now moves to the Senate, I look forward with speaking with members from both side of the aisle, to answering their questions and to hearing their concerns. I consider the United States Senate the greatest deliberative body in the world, and I respect the important role the Constitution affords it in the confirmation of our judges.I respect, too, the fact that in our legal order it is for Congress and not the courts to write new laws. It is the role of judges to apply, not alter, the work of the people’s representatives. A judge who likes every outcome he reaches is very likely a bad judge...(LAUGHTER)... stretching for results he prefers rather than those the law demands.I am so thankful tonight for my family, my friends and my faith. These are the things that keep me grounded at life’s peaks and have sustained me in its valleys.To Louise, my incredible wife and companion of 20 years, my cherished daughters who are watching on TV, and all my family and friends, I cannot thank you enough for your love and for your prayers. I could not attempt this without you.Mr. President, I am honored and I am humbled. Thank you very much.(APPLAUSE)END
LONDON — A group of child refugees had just landed in Britain and the country’s right-wing tabloids were in a fury, warning of foreigners cheating their way into the country by lying about their age. Amid the cacophony, a challenge arose on Twitter from an unexpected source.“The treatment by some towards these young refugees is hideously racist and utterly heartless. What’s happening to our country?”The tweet came not from a human rights advocate or from a liberal lawmaker but from Gary Lineker, one of the finest strikers in English soccer history and the veteran host of “Match of the Day,” a weekly roundup on the BBC of highlights from the Premier League that is the nation’s most popular sports show.It has turned Mr. Lineker, a onetime working-class boy from Leicester, into an unlikely spokesman for the much-maligned “liberal elite.” That amorphous catchall phrase has come to describe those in Britain who are uncomfortable with the anti-immigration and anti-European rhetoric that has become mainstream in Britain since last year’s vote to leave the European Union.Mr. Lineker has gone where not even the opposition Labour Party goes these days for fear of being branded out of touch.The Sun newspaper, incensed about being called racist for demanding dental X-rays to determine the age of the child refugees, ran a front-page article accusing Mr. Lineker of “peddling” a lie and demanded that the taxpayer-funded BBC fire him. His Twitter feed, followed by about 5.6 million and still mostly about soccer, has been inundated with vitriol and occasionally more polite demands that he “stick to football.” (“Stick to politics,” his fans retort on his behalf.)Mr. Lineker, who is not easily fazed — he claims not to have been nervous even when taking penalty kicks for England in the 1990 World Cup — shrugs off the furor. A twice-divorced father of four sons, he is no stranger to unwanted attention from the tabloids.If anything, he says, the latest criticism has made him more determined to speak his mind. “Being a sportsman I’m quite competitive, so I wasn’t just going to back down,” he said one recent afternoon in Barnes, the leafy West London neighborhood where he lives.Silver-haired and boyish-looking at 56, Mr. Lineker is something of a national treasure in Britain. With 48 international goals to his name, the former England captain scored more goals in World Cup finals than any other English player before or since. In the 1986 World Cup, he scored six times and won the Golden Boot for top scorer, the only English player to win the award.During his 16-year career, he was never given a yellow or red card and once was awarded a trophy for fair play by FIFA. So entrenched is his nice-guy image that advertisements for Walkers, a potato chip company based in Mr. Lineker’s hometown, Leicester, in central England, have played on it in commercials for years, featuring variations of a “Nasty Gary” who steals chips from children and never shares.Normally appearing on Match of the Day in sharp Italian suits, Mr. Lineker presented the show one week last September in underpants — making good on a promise a year earlier to strip if Leicester City won the Premier League. “The thing is, I knew categorically that there was zero chance of Leicester winning. Zero,” he said. Like the vote to leave the European Union and Donald J. Trump’s election, he said, “it was just impossible.”If his first transformation was unusual — ex-soccer players sometimes become commentators and analysts, but few become anchors who write their own copy and dominate broadcasting as much as they once dominated the soccer pitch — Mr. Lineker’s outspoken forays into the minefield of post-Brexit politics are in some ways even more striking.A Europhile who learned Spanish so well while playing for Barcelona for three years that he says he used to dream in the language, Mr. Lineker urged Britain publicly to stay in the European Union before the referendum last June and condemned the vote after.“The E.U. has its weaknesses, but it’s been pretty good for us and it’s been pretty good for Europe and it’s kept peace,” he said.In November, he called Nigel Farage, the former leader of the U.K. Independence Party and one of the main supporters of the withdrawal from Europe, a “racist” for describing President Obama as a “creature.”Lately, he has also taken on Mr. Trump. After Mr. Trump said last month that burning the American flag should be a crime punishable by a loss of citizenship, Mr. Lineker tweeted: “It’s soooo cold, I could burn a flag.”As for his tweet about refugees, that was “humanitarian” rather than political, he said.It was bold language for someone whose audience cuts across class, ethnicity, age and educational background and, if anything, is somewhat skewed to the working-class sector that lists immigration as its primary concern and that voted strongly to leave the European Union.Leicestershire, the central English county where Mr. Lineker grew up, backed the exit from Europe. For all he knows, his own father did. “I don’t like to ask because I’m too scared of the answer,” he said.Mr. Lineker, who is now worth an estimated $15 million, comes from solid working-class stock himself. The descendant of three generations of market-stall owners, he did not finish the equivalent of high school. (His final report card read: “Must devote less of his time to sport if he wants to be a success.”) Even after the local soccer club recruited him, he continued to help out at the family stall in the early years of his professional career.“People are fed up with the way things are,” he said. “There is a lot of bitterness out there, a lot of anger about a lack of jobs and concerns for the next generation.”“I understand all of that; I’ve grown up with that,” he said. “But all of a sudden we’re blaming all the ills of the country on refugees and foreigners. It’s just wrong.”Listening to Mr. Lineker, soccer becomes almost a parable for what has gone right and what has gone wrong in Britain over the last 30 years.When he played professionally in the 1980s, racism was unrestrained. He says he remembers bananas being thrown at black players. Abusive chants in the stadium were commonplace. Once, Mr. Lineker recalled, he got on a plane with John Barnes, a black player on his team, and an England supporter shouted: “You shouldn’t be allowed to wear an England shirt.”“We’ve come a million miles since then,” Mr. Lineker said. “But what you don’t want to see now is to turn back the other way.”For him the globalization of teams has done huge amounts to increase not just standards but also tolerance in the sport.“As footballers you just grow up with people from different backgrounds and different colors of skin,” he said. “When you sit in a dressing room and you’ve got 15 teammates with you, you don’t look around and think ‘He’s got black skin. He’s Asian.’ You think ‘He’s a great player. He’s a good player. He needs to work.’ ”If soccer has in some ways showcased growing tolerance in society, it has also mirrored the spectacular rise in income inequality that has developed in recent decades.Mr. Lineker’s grandfather played soccer in the army and received offers from a couple of soccer clubs but opted to work selling fruit and vegetables, which seemed a more economically stable option at the time. Mr. Lineker himself did well financially, but he was still in a generation of top-level players who needed to look for another job after retirement. Today’s superstars, like Cristiano Ronaldo or Lionel Messi, earn in a week “what I earned in a year,” Mr. Lineker said.“There is a kind of parallel there” with what is happening in society at large, he said.The mention of those top players gets Mr. Lineker visibly excited. “We’re blessed to live in the era of both, to have two absolute greats at the same time,” he said. “Whereas Ronaldo is prolific, he’s an astonishing athlete, he is a wonderfully brilliant footballer, Messi brings joy. He’s beautiful to watch. He will always edge it for me.”In politics, he says, people lack that choice.“That’s the biggest problem at the moment,” he said. “I don’t think there is an opposition at the moment, not in this country.”
DANAKIL DEPRESSION, Ethiopia — In oppressively dry heat and a miasma of sulfur and chlorine, the rocky landscape sprouts patches of neon green and yellow that resemble oozing scrambled eggs.Near-boiling pools of acidic water bubble between odd formations of rocks and minerals: white beehive-shaped mounds of salt, yolk-colored lattices of sulfuric crust, purplish-red crumbles. Nearby, iron-rich rock fans out into flat mushroom shapes. The ground crackles hollowly underfoot and emits the hiss of bubbling liquid. Cones and small mineral chimneys babble from one-holed spouts in alien whispers.Though it looks like an extraterrestrial scene, this landscape belongs to the Danakil Depression, in a remote northeast region of Ethiopia aptly named Afar, near Eritrea.About 100 meters below sea level, the Danakil Depression is one of the world’s lowest places. It is also one of the hottest places on Earth, with average daily temperatures of 34.4 degrees Celsius (93.9 degrees Fahrenheit) and only about 100 millimeters of rain each year.This volcanic region is known as a geological wonder. Indeed, most of the relatively scant scientific research on the Danakil Depression involves its fantastical geology, not its biology. Now, scientists are studying this area to understand the possibilities of life on other planets and moons, despite the region’s political volatility and sporadic violence between Ethiopia and Eritrea. This month, a team of astrobiologists from Europlanet, a consortium of research institutions and companies doing planetary research, returned to study the depression’s geology, mineralogy and especially its biology, as an analogue to Mars.Felipe Gómez Gómez of the Centro de Astrobiología in Madrid led the team’s first expedition last spring to study Danakil’s extremophiles, microbes that live in extreme conditions. Researchers from Madrid and the University of Bologna and the International Research School of Planetary Sciences, both in Italy, assisted by scientists from the University of Mekelle in Ethiopia, are isolating and identifying the hardy bacteria that thrive in this hostile environment of heat, acidity and salinity.The aim is “to try to know the limits of life and the possibility of such forms of life in other planets like Mars,” said Dr. Gómez, who is part of the science team of Curiosity, the NASA exploration rover that landed on Mars over four years ago.He has also studied other extremophiles, such as microbes that thrive in the acidic iron-rich Río Tinto in southwestern Spain. For that research, he and his colleagues exposed an acidophile to simulated Mars conditions, described in a 2010 paper in the journal Icarus.New knowledge from Danakil could be applied to Mars missions. . Studying Danakil’s microbes is “a way to train ourselves to identify different forms of life for astrobiological exploration,” Dr. Gómez said. While Mars today has subfreezing temperatures, its origins are volcanic and might be similar to the early history of Earth.There is also a broader goal of exploring ways to identify signs of life in extreme environments. “What is life? What are the limits of life? Scientists don’t agree on what is life,” Dr. Gómez said. “If we find life on Mars, would we be able to recognize it? We don’t know.”The Danakil Depression, a rift valley stretching from the Dallol volcano in Ethiopia to the salt plains of Lake Assal in Djibouti, lies at the convergence of three tectonic plates that are slowly separating. As the earth pulls apart and thins over millenniums, the land sinks.Thousands of years ago, the larger Danakil Desert was part of the Red Sea. But volcanic eruptions formed rock barriers and created an inland sea that eventually evaporated in the intense heat. Vast salt flats and salt lakes remain and are still mined by the nomadic Afar tribes, who transport salt slabs from Danakil by camel caravan.Dallol, which means disintegration in the Afar language, is the section that is home to colorful, otherworldly formations. Here, magma heats groundwater, which wells up and dissolves salt, potash and other minerals when emerging through hot springs. Brine evaporates, leaving crusty formations colored by minerals, iron and salt-thriving halophile algae to create this multicolored scenery.Some pools of water reach 90 degrees Celsius. The combination of heat, high acidity and sulfur concentrations causes bright yellow chimneys to form. Other pools of water heated to 40 degrees Celsius take on a turquoise hue from copper salts.Europlanet researchers last year took water samples from salt chimneys, blue and red pools, and yellow and brown crust. Although halophiles — microbes that thrive in saline conditions — have been identified in Dallol, this new research is the first to focus on microbes thriving in extreme acidity and heat, in addition to salinity, Dr. Gómez said.Researchers are isolating bacteria and their DNA and also doing genetic sequencing to identify the bacteria. Among them are chemolithotrophs — micro-organisms that acquire energy from inorganic compounds — that were found in the hot water on the mineral chimneys. These microbes do not require sunlight for energy and are usually found in extreme environments like hydrothermal vents on the seafloor.These simple organisms can survive with a “very small battery,” and were probably among the first bacteria on Earth, Dr. Gómez said, adding, “That is what makes them so interesting from an astrobiological point of view.”Chemolithotrophs can use inorganic reduced compounds — like sulfide, elemental sulfur, hydrogen and ammonia — as energy sources, and can grow without organic compounds and light. Scientists believe this kind of metabolism happens only with prokaryotes, microbes without a nucleus.Sulfur is abundant in Dallol because the area was covered by the sea ages ago. Here, sulfur vapor steams from chimneys on the ground. In dark submarine depths, sulfur can be the main energy source for certain bacteria living far from sunlight. In Dallol, these sources of sulfur are within arm’s reach on the Earth’s surface.Scientists are still studying their first samples from Danakil, but “we know there is life,” Dr. Gomez said.This winter’s expedition will focus on bacteria’s relationship with the atmosphere. Researchers will set up weather stations to record wind, temperature, humidity and more, “to study the environment completely, like what Curiosity does on Mars,” Dr. Gómez said. In this case, though, scientists will not have to leave Earth to do so.
Whether personally or professionally, Daniel Kronauer of Rockefeller University is the sort of biologist who leaves no stone unturned. Passionate about ants and other insects since kindergarten, Dr. Kronauer says he still loves flipping over rocks “just to see what’s crawling around underneath.”In an amply windowed fourth-floor laboratory on the east side of Manhattan, he and his colleagues are assaying the biology, brain, genetics and behavior of a single species of ant in ambitious, uncompromising detail. The researchers have painstakingly hand-decorated thousands of clonal raider ants, Cerapachys biroi, with bright dots of pink, blue, red and lime-green paint, a color-coded system that allows computers to track the ants’ movements 24 hours a day — and makes them look like walking jelly beans.The scientists have manipulated the DNA of these ants, creating what Dr. Kronauer says are the world’s first transgenic ants. Among the surprising results is a line of Greta Garbo types that defy the standard ant preference for hypersociality and instead just want to be left alone.The researchers also have identified the molecular and neural cues that spur ants to act like nurses and feed the young, or to act like queens and breed more young, or to serve as brutal police officers, capturing upstart nestmates, spread-eagling them on the ground and reducing them to so many chitinous splinters.Dr. Kronauer, who was born and raised in Germany and just turned 40, is tall, sandy-haired, blue-eyed and married to a dentist. He is amiable and direct, and his lab’s ambitions are both lofty and pragmatic.“Our ultimate goal is to have a fundamental understanding of how a complex biological system works,” Dr. Kronauer said. “I use ants as a model to do this.” As he sees it, ants in a colony are like cells in a multicellular organism, or like neurons in the brain: their fates joined, their labor synchronized, the whole an emergent force to be reckoned with.“But you can manipulate an ant colony in ways you can’t easily do with a brain,” Dr. Kronauer said. “It’s very modular, and you can take it apart and put it back together again.”Dr. Kronauer and his co-authors describe their work in a series of recent reports that appear in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, The Journal of Experimental Biology and elsewhere.The researchers hope to turn the clonal raider ant into a so-called model organism, right up there with such laboratory stalwarts as E. coli and Drosophila. But while bacteria and fruit flies have proved invaluable for addressing fundamental questions of how genes operate or body plans arise during development, Dr. Kronauer’s model ants offer scientists the chance to explore, under controlled conditions, the origin and evolution of animal societies.“His system is unbelievably promising for anyone who wants to study social behavior,” said Corina Tarnita, an associate professor of ecology and evolutionary biology at Princeton University who has worked with termites and microbial communities.“You can ask, what are the basic ingredients, the elementary operations that nature has used repeatedly to produce societies — whether you’re talking about ants, slime molds, baboons or even the very first human societies.”Gene Robinson, a honeybee expert and director of genomic biology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, said, “Social insect colonies are the quintessential complex system, and Daniel has developed a very powerful set of tools addressing big questions of how they operate, and how, in the absence of central control, local interactions can give rise to global patterns.”One key to the raider ant’s potential as a laboratory workhorse is its adaptability. Many ants are finicky. Not so Cerapachys.“It’s a weedy species,” Dr. Kronauer said. “That’s true of a lot of model organisms — they have a global distribution, they’re good at invading disturbed habitats, and they’re good at being raised in a lab.”To trace the knotted skeins of antly social life, the researchers take a battery of approaches. They knock out ant genes or edit the lettering of ant genes and see how the ants respond. They ply ants with radioactively labeled neurochemicals and check where in the ants’ brains the signaling molecules gain purchase.They measure ant movements by fractions of a millimeter as the insects perambulate along finely calibrated grids traced in ceramic. They overfeed the ants and starve the ants; they mix and match ants of varying age, life experience and transgenicity.The project represents basic research at its most seductively cerebral, yet it may well reveal insights into human disease, like why cancer cells ignore all stop signals from their surroundings, or why the brain turns in on itself during depression.“By studying the neuromodulators that make ants so sensitive to their social environment,” Dr. Kronauer said, “we could learn something fundamental about autism and depression along the way.”The five-year enterprise has not been glitch free. Early on, the ants were stricken by a mite infestation. “It came out of nowhere and killed off 80 percent of the colonies,” Dr. Kronauer said. “I went home and told my wife, we’re done.”Now the protocols are established, the ants are thriving and members of Dr. Kronauer’s lab handle their subjects with deft efficiency. In one experiment, Vikram Chandra, a graduate student, plucked individual ants from a dish with a small pair of pliers and passed the tool over to Amelia Ritger, a research assistant.She peered through a microscope to inject a dose of hormone into each ant’s abdomen and then returned the pliers to Mr. Chandra for a refill. “We’ll go through a few hundred of these over the next couple of hours,” Ms. Ritger said.“In structuring our work routine,” Mr. Chandra said dryly, “we decided to take a tip from the ants.”Dr. Kronauer said his students and postdoctoral fellows designed everything from scratch: computer algorithms, tracking devices, the incised mazes. “They’re engineers, code writers, neuroscientists,” Dr. Kronauer said. “Me, I’m just the guy who knows about ants.”In fact, Dr. Kronauer spent years studying ants in the field, working with slave-making ants in Arizona and army ants in Costa Rica. But as much as he loved fieldwork, he began to feel that chasing army ants through the forest was like chasing chimpanzees.“They move, you follow. You can’t really do experiments,” he said. He wanted to delve deeper, take ants back to the lab, do sequencing, transgenics, knockouts, molecular work, the whole fruit fly buffet. But what sort of ants would comply?As a rule, biologists who study ants in the lab must constantly replenish their stocks from the wild, which would preclude the precise genetic research Dr. Kronauer had in mind. Then he happened on three papers about the obscure C. biroi, and he knew he’d found his ant.Beyond its amenable weediness, the clonal raider ant seems almost custom-tailored for experimentation. The world’s 12,000 known species of ants display a variety of reproductive and survival strategies. The most familiar examples are the fully eusocial ants, in which many sterile female workers do all the chores, a single large queen lays all the eggs, and a sprinkling of male ants, or drones, supply the sperm.Among clonal raider ants, there are no permanently designated workers and queens. Instead, all the ants in a colony switch back and forth from one role to the other. About half the time, they behave like workers, gathering food for their young — generally, by raiding the nests of other ants and stealing their larvae.The rest of the time, they go into queen mode and all colony members lay eggs together. Moreover, there are no male raider ants: The eggs develop parthenogenetically, without sperm, creating phalanxes of genetically identical female clones.The ants’ unusual mix of genetic uniformity and wildly protean conduct offers a powerful tool for cracking the old nature-versus-nurture conundrum, and the Kronauer researchers have been mapping out the interplay between genes and environmental cues in shaping essential behaviors like reproduction and sociality.Sequencing the genome of the ant, the scientists found that one class of odorant receptor genes had been “massively expanded,” Dr. Kronauer said, suggesting that C. birois may be even more dependent than the average ant on chemical communication. The researchers then used gene knockout techniques to eliminate that category of odorant receptors from some ants, and the results were startling.The knockout ants had no trouble detecting food. In fact, Dr. Kronauer said, “they would eat much more than other ants do.” Their appetite for socializing was another matter.Whereas normal raider ants will happily pile on top of one another whenever possible, the knockout ants avoided the crowd, instead wandering around on their own for days at a time, as though they were nothing more than the average asocial beetle.The results suggest that the diversification and specialization of olfactory receptors were keys to the evolution of ant sociality.The researchers are also exploring the biochemistry of caretaking, asking which signals prod ants to leave the nest and find food for their young.Preliminary results suggest that volatile pheromones exuded by newborn larvae stimulate the brains of adult ants to begin generating the hormone inotocin, the ant’s equivalent of oxytocin, which is famed for its role in promoting nurturing behavior among mammals.For raider ants, an inotocin surge galvanizes the urge to venture forth and start plundering, and ants with the greatest number of inotocin-making neurons, Dr. Kronauer said, “are the first ones out the door.”Some ants, by contrast, ignore the community cues altogether, and they pay dearly for their scoffery.Reporting in the journal Current Biology, Dr. Kronauer and his colleagues described the strictness with which a colony of clonal ants synchronized its schedule: Now everyone lays eggs, now the eggs hatch into larvae, now the adults shut down their ovaries and instead attend to the hungry young.On occasion, though, an ant’s ovaries remain animated when they should be suspended, and other ants can detect the illicit activity through telltale hydrocarbon signatures on the offender’s cuticle. Policing ants soon move in on the hyperovarian individual, drag it out of the nest, hold it down and pull it apart, an execution that can take hours or days.“These ants are like little tanks,” Dr. Kronauer said.Why is it important to kill off an ant that might breed off-season when that ant is your genetic twin? Dr. Kronauer compared the police ants to the body’s immune system, and the rebel ant to cancer.“An ant colony faces similar problems as a multicellular organism,” he said. “You can’t have components that don’t respond to regulatory cues and start to replicate out of control.”When the ant police come knocking, there’s no rock big enough to hide you.
We all know the stereotype: silly millennials, tethered to their phones, unable to accomplish the simplest tasks without scrolling their Instagram feeds, snapping their friends and/or tweeting inanely.But a Nielsen report released last week shows that Americans from 18 to 34 are less obsessed with social media than some of their older peers are.Adults 35 to 49 were found to spend an average of 6 hours 58 minutes a week on social media networks, compared with 6 hours 19 minutes for the younger group. More predictably, adults 50 and over spent significantly less time on the networks: an average of 4 hours 9 minutes a week.Sean Casey, the president of Nielsen’s social division, said the finding initially surprised him because “the going thought is that social is vastly owned by the younger generation.”“It’s kind of synonymous,” said Mr. Casey, who wrote the foreword to the report. “When you think of millennials, you think of social.”Mr. Casey, 46, said that eventually, the finding started to make more sense to him.“At a time when we wanted to be connected, it came out right when we were at the top of our media consumption,” he said. “It’s become second nature to our generation.”The finding underscores how ubiquitous the smartphone has become. The report, released on Jan. 17, found that in the United States, 97 percent of people 18 to 34, and 94 percent of people 35 to 49, had access to smartphones. Seventy-seven percent of those 50 and older used smartphones, the report found.The 29-page report was based on data from 9,000 smartphone users and 1,300 tablet users across the country from July through September. The data was not self-reported.The report also broke out which social networks were most popular on smartphones, finding that Facebook still dominated on mobile, with about 178.2 million unique users in September. It was followed by Instagram, with 91.5 million unique users; Twitter, with 82.2 million unique users; and Pinterest, with 69.6 million users.Snapchat, a favorite of younger users, was sixth on the list, behind the professional networking site LinkedIn.Finally, the report looked at second-screen activity on social media, measuring how many times Facebook and Twitter users employed those sites to post about programs they were watching or to interact with others’ posts.Again, in this category, it was Generation X that could not look away from its devices: On an average day, the report found, 42 percent of those interacting with television on Facebook were from 35 to 49; only 40 percent were millennials.
When people get up and move, even a little, they tend to be happier than when they are still, according to an interesting new study that used cellphone data to track activities and moods. In general, the researchers found, people who move are more content than people who sit.There already is considerable evidence that physical activity is linked to psychological health. Epidemiological studies have found, for example, that people who exercise or otherwise are active typically are less prone to depression and anxiety than sedentary people.But many of these studies focused only on negative moods. They often also relied on people recalling how they had felt and how much they had moved or sat in the previous week or month, with little objective data to support these recollections.For the new study, which was published this month in PLoS One, researchers at the University of Cambridge in England decided to try a different approach. They would look, they decided, at correlations between movement and happiness, that most positive of emotions. In addition, they would look at what people reported about their activity and compare it with objective measures of movement.To accomplish these goals, they first developed a special app for Android phones. Available free on the Google app store and ultimately downloaded by more than 10,000 men and women, it was advertised as helping people to understand how lifestyle choices, such as physical activity, might affect people’s moods. (The app, which is no longer available for download, opened with a permission form explaining to people that the data they entered would be used for academic research.)The app randomly sent requests to people throughout the day, asking them to enter an estimation of their current mood by answering questions and also using grids in which they would place a dot showing whether they felt more stressed or relaxed, depressed or excited, and so on.Periodically, people were also asked to assess their satisfaction with life in general.After a few weeks, when people were comfortable with the app, they began answering additional questions about whether, in the past 15 minutes, they had been sitting, standing, walking, running, lying down or doing something else.They also were asked about their mood at that moment.At the same time, during the 17 months of the study, the app gathered data from the activity monitor that is built into almost every smartphone today. In essence, it checked whether someone’s recall of how much he or she had been moving in the past quarter-hour tallied with the numbers from the activity monitor.In general, the information provided by users and the data from activity monitors was almost exactly the same.Of greater interest to the researchers, people using the app turned out to feel happier when they had been moving in the past quarter-hour than when they had been sitting or lying down, even though most of the time they were not engaged in rigorous activity.In fact, most of the physical activity that people reported was gentle walking, with little running, cycling or other more strenuous exercise.But the links between moving in any way and feeling happy were consistent for most people throughout the day, according to the data from their apps. It also didn’t matter whether it was a workday or weekend.The researchers also found that people who moved more frequently tended to report greater life satisfaction over all than those who reported spending most of their time in a chair.In general, the results suggest that “people who are generally more active are generally happier and, in the moments when people are more active, they are happier,” says Gillian Sandstrom, a study co-author who was a postdoctoral researcher at Cambridge and is now a lecturer in psychology at the University of Essex.In other words, moving and happiness were closely linked, both in the short term and longer term.Of course, this type of study does not establish causation. It cannot tell us whether being more active actually causes us to become happier or, conversely, whether being happy causes us to move more. It only shows that more activity goes hand-in-hand with greater happiness.The study also is limited by its reliance on cellphone data, Dr. Sandstrom says, because it may not have captured information about formal exercise. People often do not carry their phones when they run, cycle or engage in other types of vigorous activity, she and her colleagues point out in the study. So those types of workouts would not be reflected in the app or the phones’ activity monitor, making it impossible to know from this data set whether formal exercise is linked to happiness, for better or worse.Still, the size of the study group and the consistency of the findings are compelling, Dr. Sandstrom says. They do indicate that if you get up and move often, you are more likely to feel cheerful than if you do not.
CHICAGO — A shop vacuum became a lover; suction was involved. Feet turned into faces. A great fanged creature appeared with a man inside. Ghostly villagers assembled, silent and wreathed with smoke as their buildings burned and burned.It was a puppet invasion — all part of the 11-day Chicago International Puppet Theater Festival — and the latest proof that puppetry, a delicate and mysterious art so often restricted in this country to the children’s table, or relegated to fringe productions, has claimed a spot closer to the center. In an age when we seek relief from the relentless barrage of technology, this low-fi, handmade form provides it.A city where the dominant stage aesthetic for years was a kind of red-meat realism — think Steppenwolf Theater Company, which unleashed John Malkovich on the world — might not seem to be a place where puppetry would flourish. Yet the very existence of last month’s festival, and the eagerness with which dozens of institutions across Chicago have embraced it since its start in 2015, is emblematic of a development long in the making on American stages.It’s not so much that puppetry is having an evanescent moment as that it has reached critical mass and settled in, cherished by grown-up audiences raised on “Sesame Street” and “The Muppet Show” who have had their hunger stoked by landmark puppet productions on Broadway: “The Lion King,” “Avenue Q,” “War Horse,” with its magnificent steeds.If, in theater — as in opera and dance, where it has also been making inroads — puppetry most often plays a supporting rather than starring role, it has a much greater presence than it once did.“Infiltration is welcome,” said the puppeteer Blair Thomas, the festival’s founder and artistic director, who made a dog puppet for Patti LuPone’s character in the Broadway-bound musical “War Paint” when it ran in Chicago last summer. “The doors have been opened.”And the puppets are marching right through.You can see the shift in The New York Times, with mention of puppets now commonplace in theater reviews. But then, New York is the puppetry capital of America, where boundary-pushing directors like Lee Breuer and Julie Taymor have spent decades harnessing that hybrid art — part visual, part performance — to create fantastical worlds heavily influenced by foreign traditions.The best shows I saw over a weekend at the Chicago festival did come from other countries. One was the Norwegian director Yngvild Aspeli’s “Cendres,” a haunted, mesmerizing piece about arson and internal torment, full of life-size puppets and miniature blazing buildings, from the French-Norwegian company Plexus Polaire. Unfortunately for American audiences, it has already headed back to Europe.The other was “Chiflón, El Silencio del Carbón” (“Chiflón, Silence of the Coal”), by the Chilean collective Silencio Blanco, whose artists manipulate sublimely crude-looking puppets with tender precision to tell a wordless story of coal mining, set partly deep beneath the earth. That production, which continues its United States tour through early March, will stop in New York this month.But the abundant homegrown puppetry in “Mr. and Mrs. Pennyworth,” a nouveau-Victorian play by Doug Hara at Lookingglass Theater Company, was on par with those imports — both the shadow puppetry by the young Chicago collective Manual Cinema, which has won raves in its recent forays to New York, and a menagerie of gorgeous beasts (a cuddly pig, a shaggy wolf, an enormous boar) by Mr. Thomas, who built them all in his Wisconsin barn.Exposing Chicago artists to international work is part of the impetus for the festival. Mr. Thomas, 54, intends to fill some of the void left by the Henson International Festival of Puppet Theater, which ran in New York from 1992 to 2000, and the International Theater Festival of Chicago, which in the late 1980s ignited his love of puppetry with a visit from a Barcelona company. That event changed Chicago, Mr. Thomas said, by showing artists and audiences what the standard was elsewhere.He laments the advantage that European puppet artists have in the sheer opportunities for their productions to be staged. But Cheryl Henson — a daughter of the Muppets’ creator, Jim Henson, and the president of the Jim Henson Foundation, a major force in contemporary puppet theater — said that American puppeteers had caught up to the European standard of the craft.“They’re not second-class anymore,” she said from Britain, where she was attending the London International Mime Festival, which routinely also includes puppetry.On my Sunday morning in Chicago, I went to the Instituto Cervantes for a children’s show by the Italian company Teatro dei Piedi and watched Veronica Gonzalez, a virtuoso of the form, create a succession of joyous vignettes starring puppets made from her own costumed feet. It is astonishing how expressive toes can be.I was the age of the children in that audience when my own love of puppetry was nurtured by “Sesame Street,” though I hadn’t thought much about it until an exhibition of the show’s Muppets two years ago at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts. I was surprised at how moved I was to see the Count. And when, in a corner at the back of the gallery, I spotted the bashful Mr. Snuffleupagus, it was like coming upon a mythical creature.Still, my enduring fondness is nothing compared with the childhood fandom that Sarah Fornace, one of the artistic directors of Manual Cinema, described: a devotion to the Muppets — and to Jim Henson movies like “The Dark Crystal” (1982) and “Labyrinth” (1986) — so impassioned that in eighth grade she wrote a report about her ambition to be a Muppeteer.“All of that was really important to my cultural identity growing up,” she said.Now 31, she has worked at Redmoon Theater, which Mr. Thomas co-founded, and has been a member of his troupe Blair Thomas & Co. She extolled the Chicago scene, noting “a plethora of young companies who either explicitly do puppetry” or use puppetry and object work “to create moments of spectacle” and effects that aren’t possible to achieve onstage with human bodies.That defiance of realism, of course, is part of puppets’ potency. The figures embrace metaphor, and we fill in the blanks with our willingness to believe.The night before I flew to Chicago, I went to Wakka Wakka’s “Made in China” at 59E59 Theaters. It’s a puppet show aimed at grown-ups (there’s puppet nudity almost immediately), but I was surprised anyway as I looked at the crowd. Nearly everyone was middle-aged or older, normal for a Midtown Manhattan theater but still surprising for a production of pure puppetry: no actors, just puppets and puppeteers.[Puppeteers with “Made in China” joined us for a chat on Facebook Live]Pure puppetry is the ideal for people in the puppet world. That is the sticking point in any argument about the art form being on the rise because, however many gains it makes inside other disciplines, puppets are rarely the point of the show. One exception on the horizon: “Top Puppet,” a reality competition special that NBC recently ordered from the Jim Henson Company and a producer of “The Voice.”Ms. Henson did point out, though, that more artists are working in the form these days, and that, thanks to “Avenue Q” and “War Horse,” many actors have gained experience as puppeteers. (She also named the top American cities for puppet theater after New York: Atlanta, Chicago and Minneapolis.)Last year, when the Henson Foundation raised its grant levels, applications rose about 80 percent. Meanwhile, Ms. Henson said, puppeteers have a better shot at getting financial support from general arts funders and at being included in performance festivals than they used to.All of that suggests a heightened respect and a sturdier infrastructure, as does the 2015 MacArthur Fellowship for the puppeteer Basil Twist — who, Ms. Henson noted, “is doing the Oompa-Loompas” for this spring’s Broadway production of “Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.”Back in New York, I called Mr. Twist, who runs the Dream Music Puppetry program at Here, where “Chiflón” will be performed. He regards the prominence of puppetry in theater today as temporary.But he did acknowledge “a cumulative effect” of “The Lion King,” “Avenue Q,” “War Horse” and the Henson festival in shaping public perception — persuading adults that puppetry isn’t just kid stuff. “‘Made in China’ could not have played in the same way 25 years ago,” he said.Mr. Twist, 47, talked about his preference for pure puppetry — a mismatch, he knows, with his many collaborative forays into theater and dance. Then he told me there was an exhibition I needed to see: “The Theater of Robert Anton,” running until Saturday, Feb. 11, at an Upper East Side gallery called Broadway 1602.When I went there, I ran into Mr. Twist, who cheerfully showed me around, filling me in on Mr. Anton, an avant-garde puppeteer who died in 1984. Mr. Anton’s puppets, some of which Mr. Twist lent to the show, are tiny objects with minutely detailed faces — one evidently modeled on Ellen Stewart, the founder of La MaMa, where Mr. Anton did much of his work.Mr. Anton performed his puppet plays for no more than 18 people at once and did not allow them to be filmed or photographed. His art is the purest of pure, and there is something sacred and beautiful about it. But also, in its hermeticism, a tinge of sadness.Because in Mr. Anton’s time, in America, puppetry for grown-ups wasn’t on the margins entirely by choice. There wasn’t much call for it center stage.“Puppetry’s kind of an underdog,” Mr. Thomas told me. “We’ve always existed on the periphery of the dominant culture. In some ways that’s our strength.”Is it, though? Not everything has to be a popular art. Not everything can be. But sophisticated puppetry appears to be moving swiftly in that direction. So far, it’s gaining power as it goes.
Q. How do I stop Windows 10 from rebooting itself after it automatically installs a software update? I find it does this at night.A. The current version of the operating system — the Windows 10 Anniversary Update — allows you to block out the time of day you normally use the computer and prevent those automatic restarts that happen after new software is installed. You can set up to 12 “active hours” when Windows is not permitted to restart itself, so if you tend to use the computer at night, you can set different active hours and let the PC restart during the day when you are away. (Some test versions of Windows 10 allow 18 active hours, an option that may appear in future system updates.)To set your active hours, go to the Start menu and choose Settings, or just press the Windows and I keys on the keyboard. On the Settings screen, select Update & Security and then Windows Update. On the Update Settings area, tap or click “Change active hours.” On the Active Hours screen, set the start and end times in which you want to avoid restarts and click the Save button.If Windows has installed new updates and has a restart pending that you want to get out of the way, you can temporarily bypass your active hours settings with a preferred restart time. To do that, go back to the Settings app to Update & Security and Windows Update, and then select Restart Options. On the next screen, set a customized time for the PC to restart. You can also get it over with by selecting the Restart Now option on the Windows Update screen.
PARIS — Like the clothes that swirl down the catwalks during the couture shows, the haute joaillerie collections unveiled during the week were shimmering meditations on the work done by hand.Take Harumi Klossowska de Rola’s “Retour D’Expedition,” a collection of 15 jewels and seven decorative objects presented until Feb. 1 at L’École Van Cleef & Arpels, the education arm of the fine jewelry brand. On display was an exactingly carved bejeweled menagerie in motion, including a bracelet of a cat catching his tail, forged from ivory and white gold with an ebony, white and yellow diamond finish, and a large, owl-shaped single earring with quivering feathers crafted from discs of 24-karat gold. There also was a formidable trio of eagle-head rings, carved from Ankole cow horn or petrified wood, with gold and diamond intrusions.“I have always been fascinated by the animal world because, to me, it represents a link between us and nature,” Ms. Klossowska de Rola said. “I think humans have forgotten the importance of the natural world. My art — which I try to give a life of its own — is a way of seeing if we can find our way back.”A few steps away on the Place Vendôme, Chanel was also looking back: to the early life of its founder.“Coco avant Chanel” paid tribute to the women who supported Gabrielle Chanel before she became famous; each of the jewels was named for an individual, and largely crafted from the signature materials of the Chanel atelier: pearls, ribbons and lace. So the Jeanne necklace (named for Jeanne Dirys, a silent movie actress) had an intricate lacelike white gold setting with more than 100 pink sapphires, 82 gray spinels and 650 diamonds. And the Suzanne ring (named for the socialite Suzanne Orlandi, the first woman to wear an original Chanel garment) featured rosy pink padparadscha sapphires and gray moonstone cabochons. There also were subtler pieces on display: earrings and necklaces made from classic strings of pearls, and finished with dainty diamond bows.Next door, the jewelers of Chaumet were pondering the tension within a bow, a traditional gift in French aristocratic courts symbolizing both filial and romantic affection. Supple rose-gold rope chains were delicately intertwined with white gold and diamond ribbons, which then unwound themselves from earlobes, around fingers and on wrists. Duality was likewise on show at Dauphin, where the creative director Charlotte Dauphin de la Rouchefoucauld explored ideas of volume via small gold modules that could be stacked, regrouped and even disassembled to create myriad options for the wearer.Indeed, practicality — albeit of the whimsical kind, perhaps the only type necessary for the haute joaillerie client for whom money is no object — was on the minds of plenty of design houses; secret watches were everywhere.The Milanese jeweler Giampiero Bodino hid his quartz movement under a rock ’n’ roll band of geometric shapes made out of black spinels and white diamonds. At Boucheron, the creative director Claire Choisne concealed her timepiece behind a leaf on an intricate diamond pavé bracelet. And at Dior, Victoire de Castellane, the house’s creative director of fine jewelry, used her favorite stone — the opal — to create eight (a nod to Christian Dior’s lucky number) different watches that hid the hours under the gem, standouts of the 27-piece collection.“I don’t want these to be known as secret watches — they are more than that. This is jewelry that tells the time, and a time no one else can see,” she said.It was impossible, however, to miss the diamonds at De Beers. Offered in a range of brilliant carats and colors, including white, yellow and brown (plus one that morphed according to the light), they were laid out so temptingly, either loose or in simple ring settings, it was hard not to reach out and touch.
The Golden Globe Awards took place in Los Angeles on Sunday. See what nominees like Natalie Portman, Viola Davis, Emma Stone, Naomie Harris and more wore.
WINTER GARDEN, Fla. — Bryson DeChambeau raked one ball after another in front of him, making them soar a little higher in the air each time. Then he made them scream at a lower trajectory.Before there was time to rub an eye and make sure the shot was real, DeChambeau hit another one. Same club. Same shot. The ball went into the sun and dropped again. Same place. Toss a beach blanket at his target, and all the balls would land atop it.“Do you want them to go straighter?” DeChambeau asked his audience with a wry chuckle.On Tuesday, while Tiger Woods and a majority of the field at the PGA Tour’s Farmers Insurance Open were preparing in San Diego, DeChambeau was thousands of miles away spreading the gospel of Cobra’s new single-length irons — all the shaft lengths are 37½ inches — to hundreds of golf pros on a driving range at Orange County National Golf Club.The PGA Merchandise Show is where every company promotes its latest and greatest innovations. Many touring pros from Bubba Watson to John Daly helped hawk products at the 64th annual gathering of more than 40,000 golf industry professionals, but only DeChambeau boasted that he was part of a movement “that’s going to literally revolutionize the golf industry.”The concept of single-length irons is not a new one. Bobby Jones, the only player to win all four majors in one year, in 1930, used single-length clubs. So did the Canadian golfer Moe Norman, who was widely regarded to be among golf’s best ball strikers. Jack Nix of Albuquerque obtained a patent on the one-length concept in 1976. He later sold it to Tommy Armour Golf, which introduced a line of single-length irons in 1989. The line bombed, and the concept never gained widespread appeal.The logic behind single-length iron sets is simple: It promotes a more consistent swing and eliminates the need to make stance, ball position and swing-plane adjustments as the club gets longer or shorter. Bob Philion, Cobra Puma Golf’s president and chief executive, described it as “playing with a bag of 7-irons.”It has been nearly seven years since Puma purchased Cobra, and a bag of 7-irons may represent the company’s best chance for a breakout product in the highly competitive $5 billion golf equipment market, which has been stuck in the doldrums in recent years. Nike even got out of the market last year.These days, most advances in club technology tend to be incremental, in part, because of stiff regulations enforced by the United States Golf Association. Against such odds, it may be as difficult for a game changer to emerge in the current marketplace as it is for DeChambeau to win the Grand Slam.Conventional golf clubs are built in half-inch-length increments with varying club-head angles throughout the set. This process became the industry standard decades ago, so that club manufacturers could mass-produce a product that previously was custom-made.To DeChambeau, 23, this amounted to 13 swings he needed to master. The physics student in him wondered if there was a better way.In 2011, DeChambeau began experimenting with swinging on a single plane, a technique championed by proponents of Homer Kelley’s cult classic The Golfing Machine. DeChambeau’s study of the golf swing led him to ask his golf coach, Mike Schy, the type of question that is easy to ask but difficult to answer.“What do you say to a 17-year-old kid who asks to make all the clubs the same length?” DeChambeau said. “That’s crazy.”Schy said, let’s do it. But one can’t simply cut down a traditional set of irons. Long irons would be too light, short irons too heavy. So they “garage-punked” DeChambeau’s TaylorMade set, slathering the long irons with more than $200 of lead tape. They drilled holes and burned through three grinding wheels to achieve the proper weight in the wedges. It took three weeks to assemble.DeChambeau’s first swing with an 8-iron flew a perfect 160 yards. When he stiffed a 5-iron from 200 yards, he turned to Schy and proclaimed, “This could change the game.”As soon as DeChambeau turned pro after the Masters last April, he signed a lucrative endorsement deal with Cobra. The World Golf Hall of Famer Greg Norman, became one of DeChambeau’s biggest supporters when he watched him win the 2015 United States Amateur. Norman endorses Cobra clubs, and Philion, Cobra’s president, said he leaned on Norman for counsel before signing off on the company’s single-length iron bet.“One of the things that stuck with me was Norman said that in his prime, during the period he was No. 1 in the world, he would have tried it,” Philion said. “I thought, ‘Wow.’ He said, it just made sense.”DeChambeau said he shed tears when the first batch of Cobra irons were presented to him. He put them straight into his bag and commemorated the moment by signing the frosted glass wall in Philion’s office in permanent ink: “The day the game changed, July 13, 2016.”Soon after, DeChambeau visited Cobra’s headquarters in Carlsbad, Calif., to test his clubs.“We’re thinking he’s coming for two days, tops,” said Mike Yagley, Cobra’s director of research and testing. “The punch line is he stayed for six days.”By the third day, Cobra issued DeChambeau a badge so he could come and go as he pleased. DeChambeau became the intern, fetching coffee for the mechanical and aerospace engineers while peppering them with questions.“I’ve never seen anyone on tour who can hold his own in the R&D world like he can,” Philion said.Cobra is not the only company that used the merchandise show to launch single-length clubs. David Edel, a boutique maker of high-end fitted irons and putters, made DeChambeau’s earliest single-length sets. While other pros are constantly looking for an edge, Edel said, DeChambeau wanted all golfers to benefit from his findings.“Bryson looks at the bigger picture in that he wants to grow the game,” Edel said.It is rare that the success of a product is so tightly linked to that of one player. When DeChambeau won on the Web.com Tour in October, it was the first time a player had won a PGA Tour-sponsored tournament using a set of irons all the same length.For now, DeChambeau is a lone wolf for the concept in the professional ranks, but with the 2015 N.C.A.A. men’s individual championship and United States Amateur title on his résumé, DeChambeau has already validated his unconventional technique while sparking curiosity among gear heads.“I’ve had more people ask me about single length than just about anything in the last six months,” said Michael Johnson, senior editor of equipment for Golf World and Golf Digest.Yagley said retail orders of single-length sets outpaced forecasts, prompting Cobra to divert some production of stock inventory to make one-length sets out of them.As if DeChambeau were not enough of an equipment trendsetter, he intends to shake up the conventional thinking about putting, too. He started using a sidesaddle style on tour this season. That putter is not for sale yet, but if he succeeds with it, it may be soon.Asked whether the single-length irons or the sidesaddle putter would be more likely to gain acceptance with the general public, DeChambeau did not hesitate to answer.“Both,” he said.
SPOKANE, Wash. — Tucked inside Washington’s eastern border, Gonzaga University may be isolated, but not enough to stop criticism of its men’s basketball program from trickling in.The Bulldogs are the new No. 1 team in the Associated Press poll, released Monday. At 22-0, Gonzaga is also the last unbeaten men’s squad in Division I.Yet while the program’s ranking and its 18 consecutive appearances in the N.C.A.A. tournament command respect, and the staying power of this tiny Jesuit university from the West Coast Conference among the national elite is a compelling story, the doubters will remain until the Bulldogs’ lofty ranking translates into success in March. Despite its consistent success, Gonzaga still has never been to the Final Four.“That’s the nature of sports,” said the senior guard Jordan Mathews, a graduate transfer from the University of California. “Like, if we saved the world, there would be a comment that we should have done it faster.”Mathews and his junior backcourt mate Nigel Williams-Goss are uniquely positioned to answer the most common barb aimed annually at the Zags: that their gaudy records year after year are a result of being a big fish in the W.C.C.’s little pond. Drop Gonzaga into the Pacific-12 Conference or one of the game’s other great lakes, the logic goes, and the Bulldogs would struggle to stay afloat.Yet Mathews was a regular contributor during his three seasons with the Golden Bears, and Williams-Goss was on the all-Pac-12 freshman team at Washington in 2014 before transferring across the state after his sophomore season.“I mean, Arizona is in first place in the Pac-12 right now, and we beat them,” Williams-Goss said.“We beat Washington,” he said, citing another Pac-12 team.Williams-Goss added that the University of San Francisco, a W.C.C. team, defeated Utah, yet another member of the Pac-12, before Gonzaga “took care of the Dons with a 95-80 victory this month.“Having been in the Pac-12, what everybody says about us is overrated,” he said, “especially this year, and with this team.”Gonzaga’s opportunity to rise to No. 1 began Tuesday when No. 1 Villanova, No. 2 Kansas and No. 4 Kentucky lost within a few hours of one another. Two days later at home, the Bulldogs dismantled San Diego, a .500 team, by 79-43, and then, on Saturday, they romped over Pepperdine, the W.C.C.’s last-place team, 96-49, in Malibu, Calif. By then, the No. 3 Bulldogs already had become the presumptive No. 1.That would put this year’s team at least on par with the ones that are remembered in banners hanging above their heads every time they take the floor at Spokane’s McCarthey Athletic Center. The earliest banner memorializes an N.C.A.A. tournament berth in 1995. Other banners recognize a stunning run to the round of 8 in 1999, and trips to the round of 16 in the two seasons after that — 18 qualifications in a row through last year.There were hints during Gonzaga’s rout of San Diego that these Zags could differ from the past squads that fell short of the Final Four.Williams-Goss scored at will, piling up 25 points, and the lanky junior forward Johnathan Williams slashed his way to a double-double.The senior Przemek Karnowski, a 7-foot-1, 300-pound center from Poland, leads the conference in field-goal percentage, but it is his court vision that really impresses, his ability to spot cutting teammates and hit them in stride.“In the past, some of our teams maybe had somebody you don’t have to guard, and they’d double the post off that guy,” said Coach Mark Few, in his 18th season leading the program.But this team is more balanced, he said, and Karnowski has the passing skills to make daring opponents pay.Four Bulldogs are averaging more than 10 points a game. Three more are within 2 points of that benchmark. The Zags play stingy defense, too, giving up the ninth-fewest points per game (61.4) in Division I. Against San Diego, Gonzaga held the Toreros to 2 points in the opening 10 minutes of the second half.Few, the coach, dismissed the significance of a No. 1 ranking at this point in the season.“To me, No. 1 is like tracking a stock,” he said. “It doesn’t do you any good looking at your 401(k) until you go to cash out.”He also hesitated to characterize his team as the undisputed best. “But there have been times,” he said, “there have been possessions, there have been four-minute spans where we’re playing better than anybody in the country.”When the Zags are making 3-point shots, Few added, “when we’re defending the rim, when our guards are playing — yeah, there have been stretches where we’re as good as anybody.”Gonzaga has been No. 1 before, topping the final poll in 2013 before being upset by Wichita State in the third round of the N.C.A.A. tournament. But a Final Four would bring a validation that a midseason ranking cannot.“It’s something we haven’t done,” Few said. “We’re running out of things we haven’t done. That seems to drive a lot of people to question us. I’m not one who signs up for that. If you can get to the tournament 18, 19 straight years, that says enough.”Few dismisses the notion that his program needs to reach the final weekend to validate the previous two decades, and he doubted that the criticism would end even if his team made it to Phoenix in March.“It’ll morph into another one,” Few said. “ ‘How come you haven’t won a national championship?’ ‘When are you going to get back there again?’ ‘You’re not really an established program if you don’t get back there again.’ It never ends.“For me, I just want our guys to play our best when our best is needed. If they do that, then good on them. I think we can compete with anybody in the country on any particular night.”
Times Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times. In this podcast, Andrew Rosenthal, a Times opinion columnist, talks about the news — the good, the bad and that which makes him mad.We are but one week into President Trump’s administration, and already it feels like we are living in “a dystopian nightmare” says the Times columnist Andrew Rosenthal, who spotted nearly omnipresent signs of bad news in President Trump’s efforts to build a wall on the Mexican border, restrict immigration (especially among Muslims), limit access to abortion, reverse course on the Keystone and Dakota Access pipelines and reopen C.I.A. “black” sites and reconsider torture.Acknowledging that the week’s bad and most maddening news tend to swirl together, Mr. Rosenthal says that the most maddening thing about President Trump’s first days is the “utter contempt” he has for the public as evidenced by the “string of baldfaced lies” that issue from the White House, particularly from the president’s “propaganda officer,” Kellyanne Conway, and his press secretary, Sean Spicer. “Trump knows that he can say anything he wants, and the right wing media will validate it, and his base won’t challenge it.”(“Here’s a little prediction,” says Mr. Rosenthal. “If things go as badly as I fear they will, in a decade or so, there will be public opinion poll showing that Trump lost in 2016.”)The good news? The obvious good news came in the form of protests held all over the weekend, all over the world, which Mr. Rosenthal says can have a real impact. He also cites the announcement of Oscar nominations this week that, he says, suggest “the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has finally started recognizing there are African-Americans actors, directors, and producers in the United States.” That’s progress, he says, and is worth saluting.Susan Lehman is host.
WASHINGTON — Few companies have been as intimately tied to the Democratic Party in recent years as Google. So now that Donald J. Trump is president, the giant company, in Silicon Valley parlance, is having to pivot.The shift was evident a day after Congress began its new session this month. That evening, about 70 lawmakers, a majority of them Republicans, were feted at the stately Smithsonian Arts and Industries Building, where they clinked champagne and bourbon glasses and posed for selfies with the 600 guests assembled in their honor.The event’s main host was not from the Republican establishment. Instead, the party was primarily financed and anchored by Google.“We’ve partnered with Google on events before, but nothing like this party,” said Alex Skatell, founder of The Independent Journal Review, a news start-up with a right-leaning millennial audience, which also helped host the event. “I’ve never heard of an event as big.”The event was emblematic of an about-face by Google. Over the last eight years, the company was closely associated with former President Barack Obama. Google employees overwhelmingly supported Mr. Obama’s presidential campaigns, and some later took roles in his administration. Eric Schmidt, the chairman of Alphabet, Google’s parent company,  advised the Obama White House. And last year, Google employees gave $1.3 million to Hillary Clinton’s campaign to succeed Mr. Obama, compared with $26,000 to the Trump campaign, according to federal filings.Now, the tech giant is scrambling to forge ties with Mr. Trump’s new administration and to strengthen its relationship with a Republican-dominated Congress. Most important, Google is trying to change the perception that it is a Democratic stronghold.That has led to events like the party at the Smithsonian, which the institution said had cost at least $50,000. Mr. Schmidt has embarked on an East Coast charm offensive of Republican political leaders, including twice visiting Mr. Trump and his advisers at Trump Tower. Last month, Google also posted an opening to fill a position for a “conservative outreach” employee in its Washington office.“Google has a target on its back because it is fundamentally viewed as a Democratic company,” said Gigi Sohn, a former senior adviser to Tom Wheeler, who was chairman of the Federal Communications Commission. “Even though it has reached out to Republicans, it can’t shake the image.”Google said it had long had Republican lobbyists and had not changed its strategy.“We’ve worked with both Republicans and Democrats for over a decade, advocating policies to encourage economic growth, innovation and entrepreneurialism,” the company said in a statement. “We’ll continue to do exactly that.”A spokesman for Mr. Schmidt added, “Eric has a long record of working constructively and energetically on important technology issues with American and world leaders across the political spectrum.”Other Silicon Valley tech companies, like Facebook, are in a similar predicament. The perception is that they lean left and their executives backed Mrs. Clinton. Many are now also pledging to work with Mr. Trump and paid court to the new president at a December tech summit meeting.One week into the administration, Google and other tech companies began to push back, criticizing Mr. Trump’s executive order on immigration bans. The company said an estimated 187 employees were affected by the order and it urged any of those employees who were abroad to work with the company to return safely to the United States.”It’s painful to see the personal cost of this executive order on our colleagues,” Sundar Pichai, Google’s chief executive, said in a memo to employees over the weekend. “We’ve always made our views on immigration issues known publicly and will continue to do so.”Google has much at stake as it repositions itself. During the Obama years, Google avoided American antitrust charges, even as European regulators accused the firm of antitrust violations in search and in its mobile business. Google also successfully pushed a policy agenda that included the creation of net neutrality rules in 2015 and the defeat of online piracy laws in 2012.Now warning shots against Google have been fired by those in Mr. Trump’s circle. Some of the president’s advisers have debated whether the tech behemoth deserves more antitrust scrutiny, according to two people briefed by the new administration’s transition team, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.In a recent interview with The New York Times, Peter Thiel, a venture capitalist and Trump transition adviser, also compared the power that Google had under Mr. Obama to that which the oil giant Exxon Mobil had under President George W. Bush. Under President Bush, the administration largely agreed with Exxon’s skeptical stance on climate change policy.Mr. Trump’s team is particularly wary of one Google executive — Mr. Schmidt — who has been allied with Democrats. During last year’s presidential campaign, Mr. Schmidt counseled Mrs. Clinton on strategy. A photo of him wearing a staff badge at her election-night party circulated widely in the conservative media.Mr. Trump’s advisers, including his chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, have complained about Mr. Schmidt’s funding of a start-up called the Groundwork, which provided data and other technology for Mrs. Clinton’s campaign. They also suspected Google was skewing search results in favor of Mrs. Clinton, said Barry Bennett, a former senior adviser for Mr. Trump’s campaign.“Mr. Schmidt spent millions and millions of his personal money to defeat Donald Trump,” Mr. Bennett said. “It takes a particular amount of gumption to pretend that never happened.”Google has denied it tweaked its search results, which are determined by algorithms, and the company declined to comment on Mr. Schmidt. White House officials did not respond to a request for comment.For many years, Google’s support of Democrats was plain. Google’s political action committee and employees ranked third in all donations to Mr. Obama’s 2012 campaign at $804,240, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. In 2008, Google’s PAC and employees were sixth with $817,855. The company did not rank in the top 20 for donations to Mr. Obama’s Republican opponents in either of those elections.About five years ago, Google began diversifying its bets. The company forged ties with the Republican-dominated House of Representatives and started addressing the beginning of an antitrust investigation into whether the company was using its search dominance to suppress competing travel, map and restaurant sites.In 2011, Google hired Stewart Jeffries, a former member of the House Judiciary Committee, to lobby Republicans on Capitol Hill. That same year, it quadrupled its number of outside lobbying firms — including many with Republican lobbyists — to 24, from six in 2010. In 2012, Google named a former Republican congresswoman, Susan Molinari of New York, to lead its Washington office.Google also sponsored conservative think tanks such as the American Enterprise Institute and the Heritage Foundation. The company has hosted Republican lawmakers including the House majority leader, Kevin McCarthy of California, and Darrell Issa of California at its headquarters in Mountain View, Calif.Google’s Washington office is now roughly split between Republican and Democrats. The company spent $15.43 million in lobbying in 2016, according to federal lobbying documents, making it among the top dozen firms in lobbying spending last year. For the first time last year, Google’s PAC gave more to Republican congressional candidates than to Democrats, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.Even so, Google’s Republican ties got little notice because of the company’s strong relationship with Democrats. Several Google employees joined the Obama administration while dozens of government bureaucrats were employed by the tech company. Google’s head of global public policy, Caroline Atkinson, was Mr. Obama’s former national security adviser. A former Google executive, Megan Smith, became the nation’s chief technology officer.During his presidency, Mr. Obama also repeatedly supported proposals backed by Google, including net neutrality in 2015 and cable set-top box reforms last year.“Google was very much treated as the golden child by the Obama administration,” said Jeffrey Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, which has been critical of Google for privacy policies.Since the election, Google has accelerated efforts to win over the Republican White House and Congress. Before his visits to Trump Tower, Mr. Schmidt met with Mr. McCarthy and Senator John Thune, a Republican from South Dakota, who is chairman of the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee.Days after Mr. Trump’s victory, Google also contacted The Independent Journal Review, which it had worked with on events during the Republican campaign debates. Google told the news start-up that it would provide the main funding for the party at the Smithsonian.Google said the event was open to both parties. But pairing with the conservative site sent a clear message to attendees. “We definitely helped draw Republicans and people from across the spectrum,” said the site’s founder, Mr. Skatell.At the party, several Republican lawmakers were positive about their tech host, brushing off questions about the company’s heft and power.“When I think of technology and Google, I don’t think of dominance,” said Representative Bradley Byrne, a Republican from Alabama. “I think of innovation.”
PARIS — New embezzlement allegations emerged on Wednesday against the French center-right presidential candidate François Fillon, adding uncertainty to an already tightly contested election.Mr. Fillon’s campaign was thrown into turmoil last week after Le Canard Enchaîné, a weekly newspaper that mixes satire and investigations, reported that his wife, Penelope Fillon, was paid with taxpayer money for a bogus job as a parliamentary assistant to her husband and his deputy in the National Assembly, the lower house of Parliament.On Wednesday, the newspaper published new accusations, reporting that Ms. Fillon had held the bogus job for even longer than initially reported — from 1988 to 1990, between 1998 and 2007 and finally from 2012 to 2013 — and that she had been paid 831,440 euros, or nearly $900,000, much more than the figure published last week.Mr. Fillon, a former prime minister, won primary elections in November to become the candidate for the center-right Republicans party. But the allegations have seriously damaged his presidential bid, and the French media, which until last week portrayed him as the favorite, is now openly wondering who might replace him if he drops out of the race.The allegations are especially damaging for Mr. Fillon because he has pledged to reduce wasteful spending and has fashioned himself as a stern and honest politician, untouched by the corruption scandals that have plagued some of his opponents.Le Canard Enchaîné also reported that Mr. Fillon paid two of his five children as parliamentary aides when he was in the Senate, the upper house of Parliament, from 2005 to 2007. In an interview on French television last week, Mr. Fillon said that he had hired them temporarily for their expertise as lawyers.But the French news media was quick to point out that the children, his oldest daughter and a younger son, were not lawyers at the time, only law students, and Le Canard Enchaîné reported on Wednesday that they were paid a total of €83,735 as full-time parliamentary aides, or over $90,000.Under French law, it is not illegal for members of Parliament to hire relatives as aides, provided that the work is genuine. But the initial report in Le Canard Enchaîné prompted prosecutors in Paris to open an investigation to determine if Ms. Fillon actually did the work.Investigators have searched Mr. Fillon’s office at the National Assembly and questioned his wife and him, as well as Marc Joulaud, Mr. Fillon’s former parliamentary deputy.Mr. Fillon has denied wrongdoing and has said he would only drop out of the race if placed under formal investigation and charged.His supporters have mounted a confusing defense of Ms. Fillon, with some suggesting, for instance, that she was never seen in Paris because she worked exclusively in Sarthe, the region of France that Mr. Fillon represents. Others suggested the opposite. Antonin Lévy, Mr. Fillon’s lawyer, was mocked on social media for suggesting that the work of a parliamentary aide was not always “tangible.”The investigation is also focusing on Le Canard Enchaîné’s report that Ms. Fillon was paid €5,000 a month from May 2012 to Dec. 2013 by La Revue des Deux Mondes, a political magazine owned by Marc Ladreit de Lacharrière, a wealthy friend of Mr. Fillon’s. Ms. Fillon is suspected of having done little besides a handful of short literary reviews.Speaking to right-wing lawmakers on Wednesday, Mr. Fillon accused his opponents on the left of orchestrating an “institutional coup” and asked his colleagues stay loyal to him, according to French news reports.Thierry Solère, a Republican lawmaker who is also a spokesman for Mr. Fillon, said later that “nobody” would prevent Mr. Fillon from reaching the first and second rounds of the presidential election. But others in the party openly questioned Mr. Fillon’s candidacy on Wednesday.Georges Fenech, a Republican in the National Assembly, told France Info radio that the situation was “very, very compromised.” “I think I am saying out loud what many, many lawmakers are thinking to themselves,” he said, calling for top party officials to designate a new candidate. “We can’t just watch like the orchestra on the Titanic, and continue to play while the ship sinks,” he said.In France, any number of candidates can run in the first round of voting, but only the two top vote-getters make it to the runoff. This year, the first round is set for April 23, and the runoff for May 7.An internet poll by the Elabe polling institute, published on Wednesday for Radio Classique and the newspaper Les Échos and conducted before Le Canard Enchaîné’s new allegations, found that Mr. Fillon, who was the favorite in the elections until last week, would not make it to the second round.The French left is deeply divided, and the candidates who have benefited the most from Mr. Fillon’s drop in popularity are Emmanuel Macron, a former economy minister under the current Socialist government who is running as an independent, and Marine Le Pen, the head of the far-right National Front party.Ms. Le Pen is facing her own allegations of financial misconduct at the European Parliament, where her party is accused of paying its staff members with European Union funds, which can only be used for parliamentary aides. Ms. Le Pen is refusing to repay the €300,000 that the European Parliament is seeking to recover.
Is it 2002 again?The final of the Australian Open on Saturday was set to feature the American sisters Venus and Serena Williams together at the end — a common sight a decade or more ago. The sisters had played in eight Grand Slam finals entering Saturday, but not since 2009.Not every fan has pined for the return of the Williams rivalry (broadcast live at 3:30 a.m. on ESPN and repeating at 9 a.m. on ESPN2). Their matches are often criticized as passionless, and the sisters have said they do not especially enjoy playing each other.“It definitely doesn’t get easier,” Serena said after an early-round match between them at Wimbledon in 2015.Here are their previous eight Grand Slam finals, six of which were won by Serena.Venus Williams, 21, was already a three-time major winner and the defending champion. Serena, 19, had precociously won the Open two years before but had not been back to a Grand Slam final since. In the Open’s first prime-time women’s final, the older sister won, 6-2, 6-4. It was the first major Grand Slam final between sisters since Maud and Lilian Watson at Wimbledon in 1884 and also the first to feature two African-Americans.How long ago was it? In the men’s final, Lleyton Hewitt defeated Pete Sampras.THE WINNER SAID: “I always want Serena to win. It’s strange. I’m the bigger sister. I’m the one who takes care of her. I make sure she has everything even if I don’t. I love her. It’s hard.”THE TIMES SAID: “There was no doubt about the effort as they grunted and grimaced through every point.”Serena experienced the longest major title drought of her career between her first in 1999 and her second here. After winning her first French Open, 7-5, 6-3, Serena would not win another at Roland Garros for 11 years. Venus has not advanced past the quarterfinals in Paris since.THE WINNER SAID: “I was really fighting for this for so long. At one point, I wouldn’t get past the quarters; then I got to the final, maybe a semi here and there. But it was just kind of discouraging. I didn’t want to be a one-hit wonder.”THE TIMES SAID: “Today, the Williams sisters reversed roles. Serena held on, while Venus came undone.”Serena followed her first French Open title with her first Wimbledon title, 7-6 (4), 6-3. Venus had been the two-time defending champion, and after this match, she lost the No. 1 ranking to Serena, too.THE WINNER SAID: “I kept thinking to myself: ‘O.K., Serena, just stay calm. Venus already has two Wimbledons. Try to fight.’”THE TIMES SAID: “Playing with the ferocity normally reserved only for others, Venus and Serena discarded their sibling code of conduct during today’s Wimbledon final.”With a 6-4, 6-3 victory in Flushing Meadows, Serena completed a 4-0 season against her sister. Winning her third major in a row, Serena also tied Venus with four Grand Slam titles over all.“Everybody has a year,” Venus said. “This is her year. Next year could be her year, too.”THE WINNER SAID: “I prefer to play Venus because that means that we have reached our maximum potential and that we’ll both go home winners. For me, I’m happy to play her in the final.”THE TIMES SAID: “If Venus and Serena continue to find each other at the end of majors the way Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi have all these years, there will be a universal appreciation for a rivalry that will never be re-created again.”For the fourth straight Grand Slam event, it was Williams versus Williams. And for the fourth straight time, Serena was the winner, completing her first so-called Serena Slam. For the first time, the match went three sets: 7–6 (4),3–6, 6–4. (Serena completed another Serena Slam in 2014-15 by winning four majors in a row.)THE WINNER SAID: “I never get choked up, never, but I’m really emotional right now and really, really happy,”THE TIMES SAID: “In a breathtaking, fist-pumping, title-gobbling hurry, Serena Williams has become one of the greats.”After an all-Belgian French Open final between Kim Clijsters and Justine Henin, normal service resumed in the next major tournament. But this may have been the most awkward of the finals between the Williams sisters. Venus strained an abdominal muscle during her semifinal match, and later acknowledged that she might not have played if it had not been a Wimbledon final and if the opponent had not been her sister. Still, Venus battled for three sets, losing, 4-6, 6-4, 6-2.THE WINNER SAID: “I was just telling myself, if anything, ‘This is Wimbledon.’ God knows if I would get this opportunity again, so I just kept telling myself that. I think, if anything, I fought harder.”THE TIMES SAID: “It might be getting easier for Serena to play her older sister, but it is still not nearly the same as matching huge ground strokes and healthy egos with an outsider. Playing Venus when she was injured only added a layer of complexity.”After the sisters played each other six times in eight major finals from 2001 to 2003, it took almost five years for them to meet in a final again. For the first time since their first Grand Slam final, Venus came out on top, 7-5, 6-4. It was Venus’s fifth Wimbledon title and seventh major championship over all, though she has not won one since.THE WINNER SAID: “She played so awesome. It was really a task to beat her.”THE TIMES SAID: “Sisters for life and doubles partners later in the afternoon, Venus and Serena Williams put most of that aside for nearly two hours on Saturday at Wimbledon, smacking serves and ground strokes in each other’s direction with a vengeance and an accuracy that have often been lacking in their previous family reunions.”Venus was the two-time defending champion, and coming into the final, she had won 20 straight matches and 34 straight sets at the All England Club. But Serena would not be denied, winning, 7-6 (3), 6-2. She had claimed three of the past four Grand Slam events to bring her career total to 11.THE WINNER SAID: (Of the Venus Rosewater Dish, presented to the winner) “It’s named the Venus, and she always wins it, and it’s just like wow. It hasn’t settled in that I won yet.”THE TIMES SAID: “Serena’s victory on Saturday, in which she finished with 12 aces and never lost her serve, was the latest confirmation that she is on another memorable run.”Serena Williams was not nearly done. Since that final, she has made 14 more, winning 11 for a career total of 22 Grand Slam singles championships. Venus has not been back to a final, with just two Grand Slam semifinal appearances.Until this week. Seeded just 13th, Venus rolled back the years to seize an unexpected berth in the final in Melbourne. Once again, her sister stands in the way.
ATHENS — Greece cannot extradite eight military officers who fled Turkey after a failed coup in July, the country’s Supreme Court ruled on Thursday. The Turkish government had demanded that the officers be handed over, and it immediately protested the court’s decision.The court, Greece’s highest, ruled that the eight officers — two majors, four captains and two noncommissioned officers — would face “the curtailment of their fundamental human rights” if sent back to Turkey, and it called for their immediate release. The decision is irreversible.The officers fled to northern Greece in a Turkish Army helicopter on July 15, saying they feared for their lives, and there was pressure on the court to deal with two seemingly irreconcilable demands: ensuring that the officers’ human rights were respected without angering a sometimes prickly neighbor.“We protest this decision, which prevents those people who had an active role in a coup attempt that targeted democratic order in Turkey, martyred 248 citizens from among security forces and civilians, injured 2,193 citizens, and also made an attempt on the life of our president from standing before the Turkish judiciary,” Turkey’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement. “Greece, which has experienced coups in its past, unfortunately has fallen into the position of a country protecting coup plotters.”The Foreign Ministry added that its attempt to secure the return of the officers would continue, and it warned that it might withhold cooperation with Greece on countering terrorism and on other issues.Intellectuals, rights activists and lawyers in Greece had lobbied against the extradition, noting the risks of sending asylum seekers back to a country where the rule of law has broken down.In a post on Twitter, Apostolos Doxiadis, a Greek writer and member of an initiative that lobbied against the officers’ extradition, described the decision as a “huge victory for Greek Justice and active citizens everywhere.”Christos Mylonopoulos, the lawyer for the Turkish officers, said in a statement that the decision was “a victory for Greek justice and European values.”He said that the eight officers had been returned to police detention for reasons that he could not immediately explain, but that he expected them to be released soon, “in line with the ruling.”European officials had urged Greece to make sure that the rights of the military officers were protected, all while being mindful of demands by Turkey, a historical rival.The Turkish government had made clear that it was expecting the return of the officers, whom they have called “traitors” and “putschists.”President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey has responded to the failed coup attempt with a wide crackdown, arresting tens of thousands of people, and the government made it clear that it was deeply disappointed by the decision.There are fears of broader repercussions. Last year, Mr. Erdogan threatened to stop honoring an agreement with the European Union to help prevent illegal immigration across the Aegean Sea if the bloc did not “keep its promises.”Talks on Turkey joining the European Union have been frozen because of concerns about Ankara’s human rights record.Some Greek officials are concerned that Turkey will respond to the extradition decision by allowing a new wave of migrants to leave; Greece would almost certainly be their first destination.Such a move would test Greece and the European Union, because Turkey has been crucial in dealing with the huge influx of people fleeing war and poverty in Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria, among other countries.The Greek government has been under pressure from the European Union to protect the eight officers, who have said they would face torture and even death if they returned to Turkey.Officials in Greece, however, were hoping not to rile Turkey, with which it has a troubled history dating from the Ottoman Empire. The two countries almost went to war in 1974 over Turkey’s invasion of Cyprus, and again 20 years ago over a territorial dispute in the Aegean Sea.In the months since the coup, Ankara has claimed Greek territory as its own, with Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu of Turkey declaring recently that islets in the Aegean were “Turkish soil.”There are also concerns that Turkey could complicate the delicate negotiations on the future of Cyprus, even as United Nations-brokered talks appear to be inching toward a solution for the ethnically divided nation.
Seven environmental activists who climbed a crane near the White House early Wednesday morning in a protest against the policies of President Trump were arrested and charged, the police said on Thursday.The protesters, who volunteer for Greenpeace, began scaling the approximately 300-foot crane around 4 in the morning, and once they reached the top, unfurled a 70-by-35-foot banner embossed with a single word: “RESIST.”Travis Nichols, a spokesman for Greenpeace, the environmental advocacy organization, said the protesters were there “to resist the environmental, economic and racial injustice that Trump and his administration have already laid out and put into practice.”Mr. Nichols said they wanted to be sure that the banner would be visible from the White House.“Obviously, I have no idea if Trump has seen it, but that would be great if he did,” he said.In his first week in office, Mr. Trump’s administration instructed officials at the Environmental Protection Agency to freeze grants and contracts, and, according to Reuters, ordered the agency to remove the climate change page from its website.Mr. Trump has also resurrected the Keystone and Dakota Access pipeline projects that have been the subject of virulent protests by environmental activists.The Metropolitan Police Department said the protest led to street closings near the White House and snarled traffic.The seven protesters were arrested and charged with second-degree burglary, unlawful entry and destruction of property, according to a police statement, UPI reported.The crane, owned by Miller and Long D.C., is parked at a construction site three blocks north of the White House, Mr. Nichols said. The activists unfurled the banner about 9 a.m., he said. By 1 p.m., they began their descent, and reached ground after 10 p.m., when they were detained, the police said.The White House did not immediately respond on Wednesday to a request for comment.“I am, to a large extent, an environmentalist, I believe in it,” Mr. Trump said in a meeting with auto industry executives on Tuesday. “But it’s out of control.”Almost all mention of climate change has been removed from the White House website.
WASHINGTON — A growing group of Republican lawmakers criticized President Trump’s refugee policy on Sunday even as party leaders in Congress continued to show restraint.The executive order Mr. Trump issued on Friday, which targets Syrian refugees and all travelers from several predominantly Muslim nations, had drawn little dissent from Republicans initially even as Democrats denounced it and protests erupted around the country and the world.But on Sunday, several members of Mr. Trump’s party said that the process, while initiated with the right intention, had been too hastily enacted and warned that it could backfire against United States interests.Two Republican senators, John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, led the criticism, saying in a statement that Mr. Trump’s order was not properly vetted and that it could be seen as the United States turning its back on Muslims who had risked their lives to serve as interpreters for the country’s military and diplomats.“Ultimately, we fear this executive order will become a self-inflicted wound in the fight against terrorism,” they said, adding, “That is why we fear this executive order may do more to help terrorist recruitment than improve our security.”Mr. McCain also said the plan was carried out without proper consultation of United States allies and that it mistakenly lumped together the country’s adversaries, like Iran, with allies, like Iraq.Republicans have largely supported Mr. Trump’s aggressive agenda, but in his first major decision on national security, he is finding uncharacteristic opposition from his party in the blush of his early days in office.Mr. Trump did not take well to the input, singling out Mr. McCain and Mr. Graham on Twitter as “sadly weak on immigration.”But as the day went on, they were not alone in their criticisms. Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, said that while he supported stronger screening, the order had been “poorly implemented,” especially for green card holders. “The administration should immediately make appropriate revisions, and it is my hope that following a thorough review and implementation of security enhancements that many of these programs will be improved and reinstated,” Mr. Corker said.Indeed, the administration moved to ease some of those concerns late Sunday, when the Department of Homeland Security announced that lawful permanent residents would be exempt from the ban.Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado, the chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Committee, likewise said the order was “overly broad” and that the blanket travel ban “goes too far.” Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee seemed to echo those criticisms, adding that “while not explicitly a religious test, it comes close to one, which is inconsistent with our American character.”Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio, went further, questioning the hastiness of the order’s rollout and calling for a re-evaluation of the White House’s unilateral effort. “In my view, we ought to all take a deep breath and come up with something that makes sense for our national security and again for this notion that America has always been a welcoming home for refugees and immigrants,” Mr. Portman said on CNN’s “State of the Union.”Similar concerns were voiced by some Republicans in the House. Most prominent among them was Representative Michael McCaul, the chairman of the Homeland Security Committee, who said that “it was clear” that adjustments were needed to the order, but defended it in principle. Representative Will Hurd of Texas, a former undercover C.I.A. officer, called the measure “the ultimate display of mistrust” that would “erode our allies’ willingness to fight with us” and put Americans at risk.A handful of other Republicans, including Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah, Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska and Senator Susan Collins of Maine, also offered criticism, though more cautious, on Saturday.The Republican leadership — and senior members of the House — have either supported Mr. Trump or been largely silent about the order. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, said that the United States did not make policy based on religion, though his criticism was muted compared with his colleagues’.Speaker Paul D. Ryan released a statement on Friday praising the order, but his aides repeatedly declined requests for further comment.Mr. McConnell cautioned against vilifying Muslims who are key allies in the American war on terror. The country, he said, needed to “be careful” with how the order is carried out. “I don’t want to criticize them for improving vetting,” Mr. McConnell said on ABC’s “This Week.” “I think we need to be careful. We don’t have religious tests in this country.”As tensions mount, Mr. Trump’s actions will be debated on Capitol Hill this week. Democrats pledged on Sunday to introduce legislation undoing them and limiting Mr. Trump’s executive authority. And the measure could add pressure to Mr. Trump’s nominees to lead the Justice and State Departments, who will probably be asked to offer their positions on the ban.Some Republicans compared the order to a measure that overwhelmingly passed the House in 2015 not long after the deadly terrorist attacks in Paris. But that bill was far less broad than Mr. Trump’s order, focusing narrowly on the screening process for Syrians and Iraqis who entered the United States as refugees. That bill was blocked by Democrats in the Senate, who argued that it too closely mirrored Mr. Trump’s campaign talk of a Muslim ban, and congressional Republicans largely put off the issue during the rest of the campaign.Mr. Trump’s order, which was enacted on Friday, halted the entry into the United States of all refugees for 120 days, barred the entry of Syrian refugees indefinitely and suspended for 90 days the entry of citizens of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen — all predominantly Muslim countries. It prompted chaos across the globe as the United States’ borders were sealed off to the affected groups and the Department of Homeland Security rushed to apply uneven enforcement. By Saturday night, judges in at least two states had issued stays preventing the government from deporting certain arrivals caught in the rollout of the order.Democrats were nearly united in their condemnation of Mr. Trump’s policy, with several of them rushing to airports to speak out in defense of people who had been detained and even those representing states that Mr. Trump won voicing dissent.Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, called on Mr. Trump to immediately reverse the action on Sunday, saying it made the country “less humanitarian, less safe, less American.”“It must be reversed immediately, and Democrats are going to introduce legislation to overturn it,” Mr. Schumer told reporters gathered for a news conference in New York.Republicans who spoke out were more measured, directing their criticism at the planning for the policy and its carrying out, though their disagreement with Mr. Trump was still clear. Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, wrote on the website Medium that the president “and his administration are right to be concerned about national security, but it’s unacceptable when even legal permanent residents are being detained or turned away at airports and ports of entry.”Mr. Sasse said Mr. Trump was right to focus on border security but disagreed with how he was carrying out the policy.And Representative Barbara Comstock, a Republican whose Northern Virginia district includes a large Muslim population, said that Mr. Trump’s action had gone “beyond the increased vetting actions the Congress has supported.”
The ransom demand arrived one recent morning by email, after about a dozen guests were locked out of their rooms at the lakeside Alpine hotel in Austria.The electronic key system at the picturesque Romantik Seehotel Jaegerwirt had been infiltrated, and the hotel was locked out of its own computer system, leaving guests stranded in the lobby, causing confusion and panic.“Good morning?” the email began, according to the hotel’s managing director, Christoph Brandstaetter. It went on to demand a ransom of two bitcoins, or about $1,800, and warned that the cost would double if the hotel did not comply with the demand by the end of the day, Jan. 22.Mr. Brandstaetter said the email included details of a “bitcoin wallet” — the account in which to deposit the money — and ended with the words, “Have a nice day!”With the 111-year-old hotel brimming with eager skiers, hikers and vacationers, some having paid about $530 for a suite with a panoramic view and sauna, Mr. Brandstaetter said he decided to cave in.Guests had already complained that their electronic room keys were not working, and receptionists’ efforts to create new ones had proved futile. Bashing down the doors was not an option.The reservation system for the hotel in the village of Turracherhöhe, about 90 minutes by car from Salzburg, was paralyzed.“We were at maximum capacity with 180 guests and decided that it was better to give in,” he said. “The hackers were very pushy.”Security experts said the attack on the hotel appeared to be a novel example of an increasingly malicious and prevalent type of modern-day piracy.The weapon? A type of software known as ransomware.The crime is as simple as it is mendacious. Victims typically receive an email with a link or attachment that contains software that encrypts files on their computer and holds them hostage until they pay a ransom. Many of the hackers who carry out such attacks operate in Russia and Eastern Europe, according to the police, and often demand a ransom in bitcoin, a digital currency that is hard to trace.“Ransomware is becoming a pandemic,” said Tony Neate, a former British police officer who investigated cybercrime for 15 years. “With the internet, anything can be switched on and off, from computers to cameras to baby monitors.”Still, he added, “hacking a hotel and locking people out of their rooms is a new line of attack.”Mr. Neate, now chief executive of Get Safe Online, a government-backed security charity in Britain, said that demands in ransomware schemes were usually low enough that victims would acquiesce. As a result, however, hackers waged dozens of attacks a day to make them financially viable.He nevertheless counseled victims not to pay, arguing that that would only further encourage more attacks and that the funds used to pay the ransom would bankroll nefarious activity, including possibly terrorism. Hotels, he warned, should also guard against copycat crimes by reinforcing their digital security.According to the United States Justice Department, ransomware attacks quadrupled in 2016 to an average of 4,000 a day. The F.B.I. said the costs to victims of such attacks rose to $209 million in the first three months of 2016, compared with $24 million throughout 2015.It is a sign of the crime’s sinister proliferation that it has also entered popular culture.In an episode of the legal drama “The Good Wife,” a Russian hacker attacked a law firm in the middle of a prominent case, encrypting its files and demanding a $50,000 ransom. The hacker eventually relented after the firm turned the tables by infecting the extortionist’s computer with propaganda criticizing Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin.In the real world, however, many have been forced to pay up.Last year, hospitals in California and Kentucky were targeted in ransomware attacks. In one case, a Los Angeles hospital paid more than $17,000 to hackers to restore its computer network, and all of its digital medical files. Other victims in Europe and the United States have included a  municipal utility, companies, schools, law firms and police departments.A recent study by the Institute for Critical Infrastructure Technology, a Washington-based organization focusing on cybersecurity, noted that ransomware threatened to “wreak havoc on America’s critical infrastructure community” and called it the digital equivalent of a “centuries old criminal tactic.”Mr. Brandstaetter said he had decided to go public with the attack at his hotel so that others would be more vigilant.To guard against future attacks, however, he said the Romantik Seehotel Jaegerwirt was considering replacing its electronic keys with old-fashioned door locks and real keys of the type used when his great-grandfather founded the hotel.“The securest way not to get hacked,” he said, “is to be offline and to use keys.”
There was a time when Josh Casillas, a longtime fan of the San Diego Chargers, watched the Super Bowl as if it were a study session.What did those Super Bowl teams have that the Chargers didn’t? What could his team, the team he followed for more than 25 years as a member of the fan club Bolt Pride, do to measure up?But for Casillas and many other Chargers fans, the Super Bowl this Sunday won’t be the same. It’s tough for them to find joy in football, after the Chargers announced this month that the team was headed to Los Angeles, abandoning San Diego after 56 years.“Nah, I don’t care about any of that stuff now because, you could say, I’m bitter,” Casillas, 42, said Friday. “I’ll still go to the Super Bowl parties, because those things are awesome, but I won’t be paying attention to the game. It hurts too much.”Those jilted fans, however, might find some solace in knowing that two former Chargers heroes are finalists for the Hall of Fame, which traditionally gains four to eight new members in a vote on the Saturday before the Super Bowl.Running back LaDainian Tomlinson is nearly a sure thing, while Coach Don Coryell is a long-overdue thing. And how appropriate a thing it would be if both were honored, and if San Diego fans could celebrate their team just one more time — maybe by salvaging Chargers jerseys from the pile that angry fans left in front of the team’s office — just as the door closes on the city’s relationship with pro football.Tomlinson, a five-time Pro Bowler who was the N.F.L.’s most valuable player of the 2006 season, was drafted by the Chargers in 2001 and turned out to be one of the best running backs in history. It would be no surprise if he made it into the Hall on this, his first ballot.Coryell’s chances are much slimmer, but they shouldn’t be. He coached the Chargers from 1978 to 1986, after five years with the St. Louis Cardinals. While he never won a Super Bowl, he did make one tiny mark on the game that might just warrant an acknowledgment from the Hall of Fame.He made the game what it is today. And that’s exactly what the Hall of Fame quarterback Dan Fouts has been arguing for about 23 years now.Under Coryell with the Chargers, Fouts became a star in an offense that didn’t emphasize running the ball, which was the standard approach in that era. To create mismatches, Coryell didn’t set up players in the exact spots and roles prescribed in textbooks.Before the snap, he had players moving. After the snap, he had Fouts throw, throw and throw the ball, farther and more often than any team before. Those Chargers even threw to the usually neglected tight end position, where they had the future Hall of Famer Kellen Winslow. The Chargers’ passing game became so distinctive that it gained a nickname: Air Coryell.“My best argument for why Don Coryell should be in the Hall of Fame is this: Ask yourself, how did the game get to the point where 4,000 yards is the norm now and where this three-, four-, five-wide-receiver stuff is the norm, and passing more than running is the norm?” Fouts said. “That was Don Coryell.”Coryell brought life to the Chargers, who hadn’t had a winning season in nearly a decade before he showed up, and his explosive offense — Fouts said the players considered any game under 40 points disappointing — rallied the city around the team. Finally, San Diego had a franchise to be proud of, and the Chargers were winning in style: They led the league in passing for six straight seasons, from 1978 through 1983, and then did it again in 1985.“Before Coryell, things were rough,” Fouts said. “We were drawing 25-30,000, and most of them were booing the quarterback. He helped turn things around, and Charger power was born. You hear about love affairs, and it was kind of like that. It was special.”Mindy Lewis, Coryell’s daughter, remembers her father, who died in 2010, as the city’s saint. She recalled bumper stickers reading “Coryell for President” and “Coryell Saves.”She is convinced that her father will make it into the Hall of Fame, she hopes sooner than later.Lewis thought he might be elected in 2010, the first time he made the final ballot of 15 candidates, because he was in the hospital, battling pneumonialike symptoms caused by a muscle disease. Even though he was on a breathing tube, Coryell, 85, talked to Fouts during Super Bowl week then, getting updates on the vote. The whole family was crushed when he didn’t make it, though Lewis said her father never complained about his exclusion. He died about five months later.“I think it’s because he never won a Super Bowl, and isn’t that so silly,” Lewis said, “considering what he contributed to the game and how many coaches talked about what they learned from him?”Some of the best coaches in history learned from him. They include Hall of Famers and Super Bowl winners, like Joe Gibbs and John Madden, who were assistants under Coryell at San Diego State.As Fouts said, if you look at those coaches, you can see how Coryell has influenced the teams of today, like the Dallas Cowboys, because Coach Jason Garrett learned from Ernie Zampese, who coached under Coryell.“You can see Don almost everywhere,” Fouts said.Especially in San Diego.Madden said Coryell “made football relevant” in San Diego because he changed the whole culture of the game there and made players and fans feel like family.Coryell shared his football knowledge with any coach who wanted it, said Madden, who learned all about the I-formation from Coryell. Coryell is widely considered the pioneer of the I, which features two running backs in a line behind the quarterback.“He was a football genius, a guru, a big thinker and a deep thinker on offense who shared his information with little people who couldn’t help him, and that just doesn’t happen anymore,” Madden said. “One time, he came to speak at a graduate night class I taught in adult education in football, and I didn’t even give him an apple.”All that, and still no Hall of Fame for Coryell? Madden isn’t worried. He is sure Coryell’s time will come because he deserves it, football deserves it and San Diego deserves it. It would be a reminder that the San Diego Chargers helped change the face of football. Even though the team has gone, nothing can erase that.Chargers fans like Casillas just might find a speck of happiness in that.“It would be great if he got into the Hall,” Casillas said, “but only as a San Diego Charger, with no mention of L.A.”
Some of the best public elementary schools in New York City are in Community School District 3, on Manhattan’s West Side. At those schools, the vast majority of children pass the annual state tests, gifted and talented programs buzz with activity, and special programs attract promising young musicians or families who want a progressive approach to education.But none of those schools are in Harlem.In District 3’s Harlem schools, there are no gifted and talented programs. Of the six elementary schools there where students take the state tests, only one comes close to the citywide passing rates of 38 percent in reading and 36 percent in math. At one school, only 6 percent of third- through eighth-grade students passed the most recent math tests.The children in the Harlem schools are mostly black and Hispanic and low-income, while the majority of children in the district’s other elementary schools are white or Asian, and either middle class or wealthy.The New York Times has been examining the district over the past few months to look at the forces that shape the racial and economic makeup of the city’s schools. Unlike in many parts of the city, in District 3 — which runs from 59th Street to 122nd Street along Manhattan’s western flank, then takes a dogleg into Harlem — people from different races and socioeconomic levels often live near one another. The district’s schools, however, are sharply divided by race and income, and diverge just as sharply in their levels of academic achievement.Nowhere is that tale of two districts clearer than in Harlem.While the high-performing schools on the Upper West Side are generally at capacity or overcrowded, enrollment at the Harlem schools has been falling as parents abandon the traditional public schools in favor of higher-performing charter schools. There are now nine in the district, eight of them in Harlem. White families, who have moved into the area in increasing numbers, generally do not send their children to the neighborhood schools, district or charter, leaving them deeply segregated. And neither the Education Department nor the district superintendent has put forth a comprehensive plan for how to lift the Harlem schools’ academic performance.Instead, in October, the department proposed effectively closing one of them, Public School 241, the STEM Institute of Manhattan, which has been struggling academically and shedding students for years. There are just 128 students in kindergarten through fifth grade — in a school that a decade ago held 582 children and went up to eighth grade.The department planned to merge the school into nearby Public School 76, the A. Philip Randolph School, and then redraw school zone lines to redistribute parts of P.S. 241’s zone to other schools.Despite the STEM Institute’s poor performance, the plan was met with protests in the neighborhood. At contentious public hearings on the proposal, Harlem parents said they felt ignored by the department and the Community Education Council, the elected board that must approve new zone lines.At a meeting in November, Felicia Harrison, the mother of a fourth grader at the STEM Institute, asked why in the case of a proposed rezoning in the southern part of District 3 parents had been given  a year and a half to debate new zone lines, while she and other Harlem parents had been notified of the proposed merger of the schools less than two months before it was to be voted on.“Why were we not given the same respect as the downtown parents?” she asked, eliciting applause and shouts of “Why?” from other parents in the audience.The complaints prompted some members of the council, most of whom live in the southern part of the district, to express regret for neglecting the problems facing the Harlem schools.“We’re all going to have to be able to look at ourselves and say what it is that we didn’t do and what it is that needs to be done,” one member, Daniel Katz, said at a meeting on Dec. 14. “I think the first step is definitely to shut up and listen, because we’ve got a lot of listening to do.”In the wake of the protests, the department dropped the merger proposal, at least for the moment.Some observers blame the struggles of Harlem’s traditional public schools entirely on the increasing number of charter schools in the neighborhood, saying that the administration of former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg fostered the growth of charters while doing too little to help the traditional public schools compete with them in recruiting families.“The schools up here were put in a situation by previous administrations where they were told, ‘Compete for students,’” Mr. Katz said at the Dec. 14 meeting, “and then the people who told them to compete for students walked away from helping them compete.”Another council member, Noah Gotbaum, said at a meeting in October that the STEM Institute, then known as P.S. 241 Family Academy, had been successful until the Education Department put the Success Academy Harlem 4 charter school in the building in 2009. He said that the Success school had siphoned off families and resources from P.S. 241.“A thriving public school that we had is now closing because of a charter school,” Mr. Gotbaum said.That does not fit the facts. The Education Department first moved to close P.S. 241 for a combination of low enrollment and poor performance in 2008-09. It ultimately backed down after the teachers union filed a lawsuit. However, while he was forced to give the school a reprieve, the chancellor at the time, Joel I. Klein, hardly seemed to be rooting for it to succeed, sending a letter to parents there urging them to “seriously consider” applying to the Success school or to the other zoned schools in the neighborhood.The percentage of neighborhood children who choose to enroll at the STEM Institute and three other nearby district public schools is much lower than at most schools in the southern part of the district. Last year, less than a quarter of the kindergartners who were zoned to attend those schools and went to public school enrolled, according to the Education Department. (The department does not track how many children go to private school.) By contrast, Public School 87, the William T. Sherman School, on West 78th Street, last year attracted 89 percent of the kindergartners who lived in its zone and attended public school.Many of the neighborhood’s black and Hispanic families choose charter schools, which have higher test scores and long waiting lists. At Success Academy Harlem 4, 94 percent of the students who took the latest state math test passed it. Other families go to private schools or to public schools in other parts of District 3, like Public School 333, the Manhattan School for Children, a non-zoned school on West 93rd Street with a progressive approach that is open to anyone in District 3 and admits students by lottery. Last year it received 975 applications for 100 kindergarten seats and had a waiting list of more than 600 families.Kim Watkins, the chairwoman of the Community Education Council’s zoning committee, is zoned for one of the Harlem district schools, Public School 149, the Sojourner Truth School, but sends her daughter to a gifted program elsewhere in the district. P.S. 149 is in the city’s Renewal program, which aims to rapidly improve low-performing schools.Ms. Watkins said that when she toured P.S. 149 three years ago, she had thought it was not rigorous enough and lacked many of the benefits that exist in middle-class schools. In addition, Ms. Watkins said of her daughter, “she would have, frankly, been the only white kid in the class — I was concerned about that.”The district’s superintendent, Ilene Altschul, suggested at the Dec. 14 education council meeting that the main reason families were not choosing the Harlem schools was not low test scores, but a failure to “get the word out about the amazing programs that are going on in all of our schools.”She noted steps that some of the schools were taking to improve their performance, including the hiring of an academic coach to work with teachers at the STEM Institute and the hiring of a math consultant and a new writing curriculum at P.S. 149. She noted that P.S. 149 had also recently added programs in dance, singing, soccer, in-line skating and robotics.But more than two years after its academic struggles earned it a place in the Renewal program, P.S. 149 has not yet made clear progress on the goals set for it by the city. In the last school year, its first under a new principal, its attendance and performance on the reading exams improved while its performance on the math exams declined slightly.Charles DeBerry, the principal of P.S. 76, the school that was set to absorb the STEM Institute, said he felt outgunned by the promotional efforts of charter schools, especially the Success Academy network, which has three schools in District 3 and has spent millions of dollars to recruit students for its schools across the city. (The Success network now has 41 schools in four boroughs.)“We’re certainly not working with the advertising budget that some of the charter schools have,” he said.Dr. Inyanga Collins, a physician whose daughter has attended P.S. 76 since prekindergarten and is now in sixth grade, said that while P.S. 76 had many high-needs students, she felt it worked well with them. (The school has a partnership with the Harlem Children’s Zone, which provides a teaching assistant or an aide in every class.) She said she would like to see parents at the school be more involved.“I feel as though the school is doing their part — we as parents have to step up and do our part,” she said. Of the proposed merger, she said, “This has been a wake-up call that this could all be gone, just like that.”Two of the Harlem schools have had somewhat better success in attracting families: Public School 180, the Hugo Newman College Preparatory School, which has a Spanish dual-language program and has drawn an increasing number of middle-class parents in recent years, and Public School 185, the Early Childhood Discovery and Design Magnet School, which offers an early childhood robotics program. P.S. 185 goes through second grade; it shares a zone with P.S. 208, the Alain L. Locke Magnet School for Environmental Stewardship, which goes from third to fifth grade.Clara Hemphill, the editor of InsideSchools.org, which reviews schools and advocates greater integration, has been studying District 3 closely.The aggressive marketing by charter schools, particularly Success Academy, “certainly hurt the district schools,” she said, “but the district schools did not fight back with effective leadership and teaching, which is what you need.”Ms. Hemphill said that schools like P.S. 149 and P.S. 241, which both have relatively new principals, should be given time to improve, but that it might ultimately be easier to start a new school than to turn failing ones around. She said she thought the district should try to replicate the Manhattan School for Children uptown.“That’s a kind of school that would be very popular among parents in the northern part of the district and would have a chance of being a racially integrated school, which we desperately need,” she said.
Enthusiasm for cancer immunotherapy is soaring, and so is Arie Belldegrun’s fortune.Dr. Belldegrun, a physician, co-founded Kite Pharma, a company that could be the first to market next year with a highly anticipated new immunotherapy treatment. But even without a product, Dr. Belldegrun has struck gold.His stock in Kite is worth about $170 million. Investors have profited along with him, as the company’s share price has soared to about $50 from an initial price of $17 in 2014.The results reflect widespread excitement over immunotherapy, which harnesses the body’s immune system to attack cancer and has rescued some patients from near-certain death. But they also speak volumes about the value of Kite’s main scientific partner: the United States government.Kite’s treatment, a form of immunotherapy called CAR-T, was initially developed by a team of researchers at the National Cancer Institute, led by a longtime friend and mentor of Dr. Belldegrun. Now Kite pays several million a year to the government to support continuing research dedicated to the company’s efforts.The relationship puts American taxpayers squarely in the middle of one of the hottest new drug markets. It also raises a question: Are taxpayers getting a good deal?Defenders say that the partnership will likely bring a lifesaving treatment to patients, something the government cannot really do by itself, and that that is what matters most.Critics say that taxpayers will end up paying twice for the same drug — once to support its development and a second time to buy it — while the company reaps the financial benefit.“If this was not a government-funded cancer treatment — if it was for a new solar technology, for example — it would be scandalous to think that some private investors are reaping massive profits off a taxpayer-funded invention,” said James Love, director of Knowledge Ecology International, an advocacy group concerned with access to medicines.The debate goes squarely to one of the nation’s most vexing challenges: rising health care and drug prices. Kite is one of a growing number of drug and biotech companies relying on federal laboratories. Analysts expect the company to charge at least $200,000 for the new treatment, which is intended as a one-time therapy for patients.While the law allows the government to demand drug-price concessions from its private-sector partners, the government has declined to do so with Kite and generally disdains the practice.Insisting on lower prices, federal researchers say, would drive away innovative partners that speed the drug-development process and benefit patients. But with the government doing so much pivotal research, others say that the private sector cannot afford to walk away.“The market is so reliant on the knowledge and know-how that comes out of the government and academic labs,” said Dr. Aaron Kesselheim, director of the Program on Regulation, Therapeutics and Law at Brigham & Women’s Hospital in Boston.Price curbs, he said, “would not suddenly lead to a total abandonment of this pipeline. It couldn’t possibly.”Drug makers would be especially unlikely to turn away from immunotherapy, where the promising science has set off a “gold rush mentality,” according to Mark Edwards of Bioscience Advisors, a company which tracks pharmaceutical licensing deals.The National Institutes of Health, the parent agency of the National Cancer Institute, currently has about 400 cooperative research agreements with companies, and licenses hundreds of patented inventions for private-sector development.Kite executives and national health officials characterize their partnership as a model arrangement in a system established by Congress three decades ago. The system has given birth to the cancer drug Taxol, the AIDS drug Prezista, two cervical cancer vaccines and a widely used test for H.I.V. infection, among other innovations.Kite’s first drug, called KTE-C19, could help thousands of patients each year in the United States with certain blood cancers. If it succeeds, it could generate sales of $1 billion to $2 billion annually, according to Wall Street analysts, making it among the most lucrative drugs to come from government research.But the government’s share of any Kite success would be modest, much lower than some academic research groups have wrangled in immunotherapy deals worth hundreds of millions of dollars.Federal officials counter that the reward to the taxpayer is not money but the drug itself.“This is exactly the way things should work,” said Dr. Steven Rosenberg, who has led the surgery branch at the National Cancer Institute for 42 years and led development of Kite’s drug. Such partnerships, he said, are “absolutely essential or many discoveries will not see the light of day.”Moreover, government officials say, companies in such deals must take significant financial risks and expenditures on their own, without any guarantee that the drug will be approved.Kite says it has spent more than $200 million on research and development, including running larger clinical trials than those conducted by the cancer institute, and recently spent about $30 million to build a factory that will be able to make treatments for up to 5,000 patients a year.Setting the price of the drug, Dr. Rosenberg said, “is for the marketplace.”Like many business deals, this one began with a personal relationship — in this case between Dr. Rosenberg and Dr. Belldegrun.After finishing medical school in his native Israel, performing surgery in helicopters for the Israeli armed forces, and completing residency at Brigham & Women’s Hospital, Dr. Belldegrun became a research fellow for Dr. Rosenberg at the N.C.I. It was 1985, and Dr. Belldegrun was put to work on a new project of Dr. Rosenberg’s — extracting tumor-fighting immune cells from cancer patients, multiplying them in the laboratory, and putting them back in.“He was one of the more outstanding fellows to come through,” said Dr. Rosenberg, 76, who is widely considered a cancer research luminary.When the fellowship ended in 1988, Dr. Belldegrun became a prominent surgeon at the University of California, Los Angeles, but the two men stayed in touch. Eventually, Dr. Belldegrun, 67, got the entrepreneurial bug. He co-founded a biotech company, Agensys, which was acquired by a bigger company for more than $500 million. He was also involved with Cougar Biotechnology, which developed the prostate cancer drug Zytiga and was acquired by Johnson & Johnson for $1 billion in May 2009. A month later, Dr. Belldegrun formed Kite with a group of colleagues and investors to pursue cancer immunotherapy.That same month, a Florida marine contractor named Eric Karlson, whose non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma was advancing despite four prior treatments, became the first patient treated by Dr. Rosenberg with what would eventually become KTE-C19. The treatment entailed removing some of Mr. Karlson’s immune system T cells from his blood, genetically engineering them to recognize and fight his cancer, multiplying the T cells to huge numbers in the laboratory and transferring them back into his body. After two such treatments, Mr. Karlson remains alive and cancer-free eight years later.Kite initially thought it would pursue an approach to immunotherapy known as cancer vaccines, but in 2010, Dr. Belldegrun visited Dr. Rosenberg and was shown the X-rays of Mr. Karlson and of a second patient.Dr. Belldegrun was bowled over. “I had no doubt that this is going to be a drug and, more than that, it will become a platform for multiple products,” he recalled. “We never looked back.”Over the next two years, the National Cancer Institute worked out a deal with Kite that was signed in 2012. It was the first of eight contracts between the government and the company that generally take two forms.In one type of contract, Kite licenses patented inventions and agrees to pay the government royalties, roughly 5 percent of sales of any commercial product arising from a particular patent. However, there is no such license specifically for KTE-C19 because the underlying treatment was not patented by the N.C.I., so royalties will be minimal.Officials say the agency did not apply for a patent because the treatment was similar to what others had been developing. Also, at the time the treatment was first created, in 2007, immunotherapy was considered to have dim commercial prospects.“Back then, we didn’t even think about commercial aspects,” said Dr. James N. Kochenderfer, a scientist at the agency who designed the treatment when working in Dr. Rosenberg’s group.Under the second type of contract, known as a cooperative research and development agreement, Kite provides money to the N.C.I. to support research. Kite is now paying $3 million a year to Dr. Rosenberg’s lab and has provided $7.5 million to it in total since 2012. Based on its regulatory filings, Kite is paying $7.8 million a year for research agreements and licenses in total, with at least $4 million of that going to the cancer institute and the rest to academic or corporate partners.The taxpayer has invested, too. Dr. Rosenberg estimated that the government has spent roughly $10 million over the years on what has become KTE-C19. He said Kite’s $3 million a year is about equal to the taxpayer funding in that area and has helped speed research.These days, researchers from Kite and the cancer institute, typically including Dr. Rosenberg and Dr. Belldegrun, confer by conference call every other Thursday for 90 minutes. Kite employees have spent long periods at the N.C.I., learning how to manufacture the therapy and how to treat patients in advance with chemotherapy.“We shouldn’t underestimate the value and the importance of N.I.H., not only to Kite but to the whole field of engineered T-cell therapy,” Dr. Belldegrun said. When Kite signed its first deal with the cancer agency, he said, it “tapped into six years of monumental work that they had done.”Some immunotherapy competitors marvel at the company’s coup in tapping into the agency’s expertise. “They got 20 years of research all together in one scoop,” said Dr. Carlos Paya, chief executive of Immune Design, which is pursuing a different approach.But government officials say few, if any, other companies were interested in the technology at the time Dr. Belldegrun came calling. Dr. Rosenberg said that before Kite, a few companies, including Johnson & Johnson, had looked at an earlier version of his technology but were wary because treatment involved processing each patient’s cells.Government-developed technology available to be licensed to companies is posted on the website of the National Institutes of Health. And when the agency intends to grant a license to a particular company, it publishes that in the Federal Register, inviting public comment and possible competing offers. Both steps were taken in the case of Kite, officials said.Kite did not get everything the cancer institute has developed in the field. Some other companies, including Opus Bio and Bluebird Bio, got rights to some products, in part because the companies had special expertise that the agency’s researchers desired. But Kite seems to have gotten the balance of them and N.C.I. technology accounts for the majority of its pipeline of possible products, though the company is diversifying.Dr. Rosenberg professes no interest in the business side of the Kite relationship. He does not own stock in any company, even Kite, though he could get up to $150,000 a year in patent royalties if some of Kite’s efforts pay off.Dr. Belldegrun, in contrast to his mentor, has commercial flair. He is known for his sharp business suits, lives in the Bel-Air neighborhood of Los Angeles, and seems as comfortable on Wall Street or in high society as in the operating room.Kite’s relationship with the N.C.I. is an important part of its appeal to investors. In some presentations, Dr. Belldegrun has shown a photograph of himself with Dr. Rosenberg in their younger days. And he persuaded Dr. Rosenberg to speak at Kite’s first big meeting for investors in June 2015, the only time he has ever spoken to Wall Street.In emails obtained through a Freedom of Information Act request by Knowledge Ecology International, Dr. Belldegrun praised Dr. Rosenberg’s talk and sent him copies of investment reports from the conference written by Wall Street analysts.“Thank you for making the effort to come to NY,” Dr. Belldegrun wrote. “I heard only raving reviews about your presence and presentation.”The reliance of private companies on government-funded research goes well beyond obvious cases like Kite. In many instances, companies work with universities or medical centers that, in turn, have been funded from the $32 billion annual budget of the National Institutes of Health.Kite’s two main competitors, Novartis and Juno Therapeutics, for instance, derived similar immunotherapy treatments largely from academic institutions, developed at least in part with government funding. Novartis has a relationship with the University of Pennsylvania, and Juno with the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and Seattle Children’s Hospital.“For the most important drugs you’ll see some public-sector involvement,” said Bhaven Sampat, an associate professor of health policy and management at Columbia University. He was one author of a study that found that 9 percent of all drugs approved between 1988 and 2005 were based directly on a patent held by the public sector. But 47.8 percent of the drugs relied at least indirectly on some federally funded research.The figures were higher for more medically important drugs: 17.4 percent had a direct public-sector patent, while 64.5 percent had at least an indirect public-sector influence.These figures are up sharply from before the 1980s. Such partnerships and licensing deals were encouraged by the 1980 Bayh-Dole and Stevenson-Wydler Acts, and the 1986 Federal Technology Transfer Act. The laws are credited with jump-starting the biotechnology industry.But from the beginning, some people questioned whether taxpayers were getting a bad deal.Perhaps the best-known drug developed from a cooperative research and development agreement — the cancer drug Taxol — was the subject of several congressional hearings in the early 1990s that investigated whether the drug’s maker, Bristol-Myers Squibb, charged too much and whether the government recouped enough of its investment. In the end, the pricing was left unchanged.The N.I.H. argues that if it imposes pricing restrictions, it won’t get partners. In fact, in 1995, it struck from its negotiating tactics a goal that prices be “reasonable.”“Companies will not take technologies from us if we say the government will decide in the future what the price will be,” said Mark Rohrbaugh, who ran the technology transfer office at the institutes from 2001 to 2013 and is now an adviser to the agency. After the “reasonable price” clause was struck, he said, there was a threefold increase in partnership deals.The N.I.H. can collect royalties from successful products to help offset the costs of the research, but so far these royalties have been small, amounting to an estimated $135 million in the last fiscal year from 870 licenses, with the bulk of the money coming from a small number of drugs.“We’re not preoccupied with financial value,” Dr. Rohrbaugh said. “Our mission is treatment of people and improving public health.”In that regard, the government’s bet on a small company like Kite, which might have seemed risky, appears to be paying off so far. Dr. Belldegrun has largely delivered on promises to raise money, assemble an experienced staff, build the factory, conduct clinical trials and begin to apply for regulatory approval. Once considered the underdog to Novartis and Juno, Kite might be the first reach the market.Academic centers and companies often drive harder bargains in licensing technology. In some cases, academic centers own a stake in a company they license technology to, allowing them to reap a financial windfall if the company does well. Both the Hutchinson cancer center and Sloan Kettering have owned stock in Juno and are entitled to substantial payments — up to $350 million and $150 million — if Juno’s stock reaches certain levels.The N.I.H. does not take equity positions in companies to avoid an appearance of a conflict of interest. So to critics of the government deals, drug prices are crucial to understanding taxpayer value. After all, they ask, is a drug truly widely available — which is what the government says is its measure of success — if it costs too much for some people?Rachel Sachs, an associate law professor at Washington University in St. Louis and expert in innovation policy, said the government had every right to seek price concessions. She noted that the government, through Medicare and Medicaid, was effectively buying its inventions back from itself. “The public is paying for the research and to the extent that many people, if not most, will pay through public insurance, we’re paying again,” she said.Hillary Clinton, in her campaign for president, promised to set new rules for federal support of research so that Americans “get the value they deserve” for the money taxpayers spend in supporting research. It is not clear how President-elect Donald J. Trump will approach these issues; he has said he favors reducing health care costs, but Republicans, who control Congress, too, have opposed a government role in price setting.One mechanism to control pricing already exists. It is called march-in rights, and it lets the N.I.H. take back control of a patent on an invention made with federal funding if the drug is not being made available to the public on reasonable terms. The tool has gone unused.Earlier this year, Knowledge Ecology International and another advocacy group, the Union for Affordable Cancer Treatment, petitioned the agency to exercise march-in rights on Xtandi, a prostate cancer drug that was developed by federally funded researchers at U.C.L.A. It said the price in the United States of about $129,000 a year, two to four times that in other developed countries, meant the drug was not reasonably available. The effort was supported by other public interest groups and some Democratic members of Congress.U.C.L.A. made more than $500 million by selling its royalty rights to the drug. But the N.I.H. declined to exercise its march-in rights on Xtandi, arguing that it was not qualified to judge whether a drug’s price is reasonable and that a high price does not mean a drug is not being made available to the public.“N.I.H. has made it clear that its job is not to decide prices of drugs, period,” Dr. Rohrbaugh saidKite says it has not decided what to charge for KTE-C19, but Dr. Belldegrun hinted that Kite’s therapy might be relatively expensive because ideally it would be a single treatment that would cure the patient, not a drug that would have to be taken continuously. He added that Kite would take steps to make sure that everyone who needed the drug could get it.Meantime, the relationship between Kite and the National Cancer Institute is expanding to develop treatments for other cancers, including one technique Dr. Rosenberg thinks could be used to attack solid tumors like colon, breast and lung cancer.“The potential for broad applicability is huge,” he said.That could mean many lives saved and maybe more billion-dollar drugs for Kite and its investors, with the American taxpayer right in the middle of the deal.
Harvard, which has been under intense pressure to rethink its investment approach for its endowment, announced on Wednesday sweeping changes to how its funds would be managed.Just weeks after becoming manager of Harvard’s $35.7 billion endowment, N. P. Narvekar said the university, which had long managed a large portion of its money internally, would give the bulk of its funds to outside managers and lay off roughly half of its 230-person staff.Harvard’s approach to managing its funds was unique in the endowment world. Those funds included a variety of asset classes like equities and real estate and natural resources.Because of several years of poor performance relative to other major endowments, Harvard has been pressed to alter its strategy. For the 10 years ended June 30, Harvard returned an annual average of 5.7 percent. Columbia, under Mr. Narvekar’s leadership, returned 8.1 percent on average.While its results were partly attributable to investment decisions, the endowment has also had a series of chief executives come and go. And analysts say some talented investors do not want to work at an endowment or foundation because the compensation will never equal what they can earn running their own funds. Even if an endowment can hire an outstanding investor, once that person has a strong record, he or she may leave for higher pay, and that does not create a stable environment, said Charles Skorina, a recruiter for chief investment officers.As the head of Columbia’s $9 billion endowment for 10 years, Mr. Narvekar allocated funds to a diverse group of outside managers, an approach that was developed by David F. Swensen and is known as the Yale model.In a letter on Wednesday, Mr. Narvekar said that the real estate investment team would leave Harvard but that Harvard would continue to invest with it.As far back as 1998, when Jonathon S. Jacobson left Harvard to form the hedge fund Highfields Capital, that fund raised a third of its initial $1.5 billion from the endowment. Mr. Narvekar also said the staff members running the endowment’s internally managed hedge funds would depart, but he did not say whether Harvard would continue to invest with them.To help orchestrate the change in strategy, Mr. Narvekar has brought in several new managers, including Richard Slocum, former chief investment officer of the Johnson Company and senior director at the investments office at the University of Pennsylvania. Mr. Narvekar is also hiring three more executives to oversee and monitor Harvard’s diversification and risk profile; two of them previously worked at Columbia’s endowment. Mr. Narvekar left open the possibility of bringing in some internal managers, but stressed that he did not expect a large portion of the portfolio would be managed internally.In addition, he said that to ensure that there was a more unified approach to investment management, compensation would not be determined by the performance of the single asset class in which a manager is involved, but by the performance of the entire portfolio.
He smiled. She sniffed. He sat. She stalked. He called her a “puppet.” She called him a “nasty man.” These were the 2016 presidential debates as re-enacted in Greenwich Village over the weekend.At the Provincetown Playhouse on Saturday, professors from New York University, the Rhode Island School of Design and the French business school Insead twice presented “Her Opponent,” a free 35-minute performance composed of excerpts from the three presidential debates with a significant twist in the casting: Donald J. Trump was played by a woman, Rachel Tuggle Whorton, a Ph.D. candidate and adjunct instructor at N.Y.U. Hillary Clinton was played by a man, Daryl Embry, another adjunct instructor. To complete the gender inversion, the candidates were given new names, Brenda King in place of Mr. Trump, Jonathan Gordon for Ms. Clinton.Drawing on the techniques of documentary theater, as practiced by the likes of Anna Deavere Smith, these actors not only studied the words of the candidates but also the gestures, posture, tempo and vocal intonation that each used. As Andy Wagner, the actor playing the moderator explained, the creators wanted to see if gender-inverted casting would “cause people to revisit their own personal biases and develop insights or a different perspective.”Using a theatrical performance to deconstruct responses to a months-old debate performance seems like another corridor in the hall of fun-house mirrors that is coming to define the Trump presidency, in which facts are countered with alternative facts, rogue social media accounts replace those that are muzzled and Mr. Trump as president-elect can take to Twitter to compare his cabinet selection process to reality TV or to carp about his impersonation on “Saturday Night Live.”Certainly, creating “Her Opponent” has been somewhat unnerving for those involved. “We were dealing with a section on border control and immigration and now saying those words and seeing what’s happening with that is really heavy and frustrating and horrifying,” Ms. Whorton said.Yet, according to many in the audience who spoke at a postshow talk-back, the cross-gender casting offered just enough remove to help them think through how they might have understood the debates had they not strongly preferred one candidate. “It gives you a distance to actually reason,” said Maria Guadalupe, a professor at Insead who first proposed the project.At the playhouse, the stage was sparsely decorated with two lecterns and two monitors. The atmosphere among the standing-room-only crowd, which appeared mostly drawn from academic circles, was convivial, but also a little anxious. Most of the people there had watched the debates assuming that Ms. Clinton couldn’t lose. This time they watched trying to figure out how Mr. Trump could have won. Interviews with cast members and comments from the postshow discussion suggested that they’d found some answers.In the first debate, Mr. Embry, as Jonathan Gordon, smiled. And smiled. And smiled some more. If you were sympathetic, it was a knowing smile, an inclusive smile, a “let’s not stoop to that level, but can you believe this” smile. If you were less approving, the tightly controlled smile could be seen as supercilious.“Is it patronizing? Is it condescending?” Mr. Embry, speaking before the performance, wondered. “You see her filtering what she wants to say, biting back a reaction and then going in a much more polished, dignified way.”A woman at the talk-back described that constant smile as “really punchable.”In the second debate, Ms. Whorton, as Brenda King, continually attacked. A question about taxes became a protest about why nothing had been done to close tax loopholes, then abruptly skittered into a condemnation of President Obama’s actions in the Middle East.Mr. Embry, reciting Ms. Clinton’s lines, also attacked, but not as viciously nor as tenaciously. He offered a rushed précis of a tax plan, corrected fact errors and detailed her accomplishments, responses that may not have stuck in the mind as fixedly as Mr. Trump’s barbs or his jokes, like a refusal to name Ms. Clinton’s donors: “I won’t mention their names, because they’re rich, but they’re not famous. So we won’t make them famous.”“I was struck by the strength of the technique of the Brenda King character,” said a man in the audience, speaking after the show. “Attack. Consistently attack. Never stop attacking.”Said a woman, “When she was attacking, I had so much respect for her and her level of confidence.”Excerpts from the third debate skipped several of the flash points — the “bad hombres,” Mr. Trump’s refusal to agree to honor the election results. But as performed by the actors, that debate did include name-calling, in which Jonathan Gordon referred to Brenda King as a likely puppet of Vladimir V. Putin. “You’re the puppet,” she shot back, schoolyard-style.The Gordon character did not interrupt nearly as frequently nor did he sidetrack the questions. Brenda King’s discourteous behavior ruffled the moderator. “I’m not a potted plant here,” he snapped. But it also helped her undermine Gordon’s rhetoric.A woman who had supported Ms. Clinton sounded pained at the talk-back as she described her reaction to the Jonathan Gordon character. “I felt that he was weak and I felt that I didn’t really like him,” she said.And Joe Salvatore, an N.Y.U. professor and one of the project’s creators, reflected on what he’d learned about Mr. Trump. “At the time of the debates, I dismissed him as awkward, unskilled, untrained,” he wrote in an email message. “Now I’m not so sure that I would do that.”
LOS ANGELES — Soon after Hossein Vayghan arrived at Los Angeles International Airport, he bought a bouquet of roses to hand to his brother, Ali Vayeghan, who was scheduled to arrive from Tehran just after 7 p.m. on Friday, with his green card in hand.But Mr. Vayeghan, 52, never made it through security. Instead, he was put on a plane to Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, and then sent back to Iran. Now, thanks to a court order, he is the only foreigner who was refused entry after President Trump issued a travel ban and has since been given permission to return to the United States.Mr. Vayeghan is one of hundreds of people who whose lives were upended by the executive order this weekend. The ordeal has left him and his family, which includes several American citizens, shaken and deeply worried about what comes next.The brothers (who spell their names differently) had planned to spend Saturday catching up over leisurely meals. Mr. Vayeghan would have gone on to reunite with his wife, who arrived in the United States a few months ago to visit their son, a United States citizen working as a nurse in Fort Wayne, Ind., whom they had not seen in more than a decade.Instead, they spent the weekend frantically relaying messages to his lawyers.So far, no other judge has ruled that the government should bring back someone who was denied entry to the United States under the Trump administration’s executive order banning entry from several Muslim-majority countries. And it remains unclear when Mr. Vayeghan will come back to the United States. Still, the ruling, by a United States District Court judge, Dolly M. Gee, is one of the most aggressive actions a federal judge has taken against the executive order. Judge Gee held that barring Mr. Vayeghan’s entry likely violated immigration law and the Constitution’s guarantee of equal protection.At the same time that White House officials walked back a provision that included green-card holders in the ban, the brothers were feeling the sting of its impact.As Mr. Vayghan, 61, watched the hours tick by on Friday evening, he became increasingly agitated. An airport greeter tried to reassure him around 9 p.m., saying it could sometimes take more than two hours for a passenger to pass through customs. Two hours later, with no sign of his younger brother, Mr. Vayghan was distraught.Mr. Vayghan, his wife and his daughter had not heard any news about the executive order — they thought that perhaps Mr. Vayeghan was being targeted for a crime he did not commit.Mr. Vayghan asked a man he saw helping passengers with their wheelchairs for help: Could he look for Mr. Vayeghan? He offered a brief description of his brother — “skinny, not too tall and not very dark or very white, like me” — and handed him his business card. A minute later, the man returned, saying the only people he had seen were returning from Latin America. Then Mr. Vayghan’s phone rang, with a federal agent on the other end.“Sorry, sir, I have bad news,” Mr. Vayghan recalled the agent saying. “In my culture, we only say bad news when it means somebody is dead.”The agent told him he could not talk to his brother but said he would call again on Saturday morning. Still confused and scared, Mr. Vayghan returned to his home in west Los Angeles.By the time he came back to the airport on Saturday, protesters were beginning to gather, and lawyers from the American Civil Liberties Union and other organizations had set up shop in the international terminal. After hearing about Mr. Vayeghan, the lawyers quickly filed a case arguing that the order violated due process and the First Amendment because it was hostile to Muslims.The brothers communicated occasionally by phone and text, and Mr. Vayeghan said he had not been given any food to eat or a place to sleep. Federal officers were pressuring him to a sign a document withdrawing his green card, he said, telling him he could be permanently banned from the United States if he did not. After hours of refusal, Mr. Vayeghan gave in, unsure of what exactly he was signing. Soon after, the authorities tried to get him to board a plane to Dubai, but Mr. Vayeghan hesitated. The agents soon picked him up to force him onto the plane, he later told his family.Officials from Customs and Border Protection, which carried out the order at airports across the country, did not return calls for comment.When Mr. Vayeghan arrived in Dubai, the officers who escorted him off the plane took his passport and pushed him several times, he told his brother.“I don’t understand. If somebody is criminal, they don’t treat them this way,” Mr. Vayghan said. “All of us, we have a good name. We have done nothing wrong in our whole life. In generations, we have had no problems.”After the court ruled in Mr. Vayeghan’s favor on Sunday, the lawyers rushed to alert the authorities in Dubai, but it was too late.If he had been on a later flight or if the order had come more quickly, Mr. Vayeghan might have been back in Los Angeles by now.“What he went through is not this country,” said his niece Marjan Vayghan, who came to California with her parents when she was 6. “That is like a madness. That is not the right L.A. that I know at all.”Peter Bibring, a lawyer for the A.C.L.U. of Southern California who is representing Mr. Vayeghan, said the ruling showed that scores of removals this weekend were unfair and illegal.“This was a case for one person, but people across the country suffered similar treatment,” he said. “It demonstrates that the valid visa holders who were removed this weekend should be returned.”Ms. Vayghan and her father are urging Mr. Vayeghan to come back and stay in the United States, living here with his status as a legal permanent resident. Now in Tehran, he is reluctant to board another plane. He worries what will happen if he returns, Ms. Vayghan said. If this could happen, he told her, what else might be possible?
Virginia Murauskas, 65, is an addiction counselor at the Hazelden Betty Ford Foundation in Center City, Minn.Q. What is your background?A. I studied psychology in college and spent several years in the human resources field. Over 20 years ago, I had an opportunity to enter the counselor training program at what is now the Hazelden Betty Ford Foundation. I’m licensed both as an addiction counselor and as a marriage and family therapist.Whom do you counsel?I work on a unit that treats women who are health care professionals like doctors, nurses and addiction counselors. Often this group has easy access to addictive medications. We have other professionals such as lawyers and airline pilots on the unit, and we also include people from all walks of life, for balance. Addiction doesn’t discriminate.Do you work with a team?We have a large one, including two other counselors, a unit manager, a care coordinator, mental health professionals, spiritual care and wellness staff members, and program directors.Do you have group counseling sessions?Besides counseling individuals, I facilitate chemical dependency therapy groups of about eight to 10 participants. Talking with their peers helps them clarify their emotions and develop coping skills.What is one of your challenges?Working with patients who don’t want to be in treatment. They may have come as the result of a family or employer intervention, or been referred by a monitoring agency that oversees their profession. Or, a court may have ordered them to attend a treatment program. These patients can be difficult to engage, but I enjoy challenges.Aside from seeing patients recover, what do you like about the job?It allows for creativity and spontaneity. I never know what a person will say in counseling, so I have to decide what to reply on the spot. I’m always working in the moment.How do you deal with what is sometimes an intense job?Self-care and a balanced life are important. I take time for myself, through gardening, golfing, traveling and spending time with my family. You need to separate your personal life from your professional life.
Jamie Barton, a sumptuous mezzo-soprano, has won the Beverly Sills Award, the Metropolitan Opera’s $50,000 annual prize for a young singer.You won’t have to wait long to hear her at the Met: She plays the witch Jezibaba (think Ursula from Disney’s “The Little Mermaid”) in a new production of Dvorak’s “Rusalka,” opening on Thursday:Born in Rome, Ga., Ms. Barton jump-started her career by winning a series of prestigious prizes: the Met’s National Council Auditions in 2007, the BBC Cardiff Singer of the World competition in 2013 and the Richard Tucker Award in 2015. Here, in a clip from Cardiff, she sings a Sibelius song and Didon’s soaring farewell from Berlioz’s “Les Troyens”:She made her Met debut in 2009 and has since made memorable appearances as Adalgisa in Bellini’s “Norma” and Giovanna Seymour in Donizetti’s “Anna Bolena.” Here’s an impassioned excerpt from her Seymour:
PARIS — Back in 2008, Fany Péchiodat, a stylish brunette with an unfussy elegance who worked in luxury perfume marketing, began sending friends an email with Paris tips: florists, shops, restaurants, the best benches for thinking, what book to read to pass the time during a transit strike.“I wanted to do the newsletter I wanted to receive: something like a letter from a friend, something very personal, very human,” Ms. Péchiodat, 39, said on a recent sunny afternoon, dressed in a brown suede miniskirt, black turtleneck and boots. She was in her tiny office with an unobstructed view of the Sacré-Coeur Basilica in the ethnic-meets-BoBo Ninth Arrondissement.That newsletter, My Little Paris, now has 1.5 million subscribers and has blossomed into a mini-lifestyle empire and creative agency — and a success story of Paris’s growing tech scene. As of this month, it’s also expanding. Into English.The company just introduced La Parisienne, a twice-weekly newsletter that promises to help a woman “look like a Parisian, eat like a Parisian, dress like a Parisian, think like a Parisian — and love like a Parisian.”Think of it as Daily Candy, the New York newsletter that folded in 2014, meets Gwyneth Paltrow’s Goop — only less earnest and with a certain Parisian flair. This being France, the emphasis is less on self-improvement, although there is a bit of that, than on that inimitable French ethic: pleasure without guilt.Written in a snappy tone with a healthy dose of skepticism, La Parisienne plays into and against type. The woman the newsletter wants to address are “the new Parisiennes,” Ms. Péchiodat said.“She may be sitting in a coffee shop,” added Anne-Flore Chapellier, 38, one of the founders of My Little Paris and its editorial director, “but she’s working on her computer.”Introduced on Jan. 3, La Parisienne already has 50,000 subscribers, most of them in the United States. The newsletter aims to show off Paris even from afar, promoting artists as well as beauty tips. Think “how to have red lipstick like a Parisienne,” by smudging it just un tout petit peu, Ms. Chapellier said.The pitch is simple: “Everyone wants to play the role of the Parisienne from time to time — even actual Parisiennes,” as the first newsletter declared.The promise is thus: “The real Parisian’s perspective on everything from books to food; footwear to feminism; our favorite French films to the universal struggle that is flirting via text. We’ll talk diversity, creativity, innovation, and thigh fat (specifically, ours).”All of which translates into, for instance, a video on “The French Art of Conversation,” with clips from movies. “Why do you look so sad?” Jean-Paul Belmondo asks Anna Karina in a clip from Jean-Luc Godard’s “Pierrot le Fou.” “Because you talk to me with words, and I look at you with feelings,” she responds.Then there was the recipe for salted butter cookie truffles from Apollonia Poilâne, who left Harvard as an undergraduate to take over her family’s historic Paris bakery. Ms. Péchiodat and her fellow founders say Ms. Poilâne and Delphine Plisson, who founded the Paris gourmet grocery store and restaurant Maison Plisson, represent the new Frenchwoman whom La Parisienne wants to embody — one who doesn’t just sit around pouting, but has a vivacious, entrepreneurial spirit.And a tip-off about Patricia Louisor-Brosset, whose seminar at the School of Life in Paris urges students to close their eyes and “envision what you’ll feel like” when your future partner walks into the room. “Immerse yourself in each emotion and try to identify each one as it arises: joy, safety, comfort, enthusiasm, inner peace,” it read. The course sold out immediately.My Little Paris always alerts small businesses when it’s about to feature them. “It’s such a big responsibility,” Ms. Péchiodat said. “Sometimes we’ll drive so many people that we’ll kill a small restaurant.” (The company’s 10 spotters always travel incognito and visit three times to be sure a place merits listing.)Ms. Péchiodat has been called “a champion of digital influence” by Capital, a prominent business newspaper in France. (It also emphasized how she had quit a full-time job to start a business, something of a novelty in France, where conservative thinking and labor laws often stifle innovation.)My Little Paris now has 130 employees, with an average age of 28. In 2013, Aufeminin, a digital media company largely owned by Axel Springer, the mighty German publishing conglomerate, bought a majority stake, and has since acquired a larger stake.The company now has its headquarters in a former carousel factory with dozens of chic-looking young women and men tapping away on Mac laptops at wooden tables. There is also a charcuterie bar. “That’s très start-up,” Ms. Péchiodat said.It’s also the point, of both her office culture and her newsletters: “It’s about enhancing life with small things,” she said.Of course, becoming such a powerhouse has some risks. “All our friends no longer share ideas with us,” said Céline Orjubin, 35, one of the company’s founders. “Now they say, ‘Oh, I went to this great restaurant!’ but when they see that we’re around, they say, ‘No no no, forget about it.’”
MODERN homes today are getting internet-connected light bulbs, thermostats, TVs and speakers. So with a simple voice command or the touch of a button on our smartphones, we can set the temperature, turn on a light or prepare the TV to record a program.What could go wrong?A lot more than most people are prepared for, it turns out. If one of these devices gets hijacked, hackers could potentially snoop around for sensitive data like financial or health information. Or they could use a network of compromised devices to perform a widespread attack that takes down major websites, which is what happened last October.The good news is that so far, online attacks on home devices are relatively uncommon. Only 10 percent of American consumers said they were victims of the crime in a recent study done for the Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company. However, those who experienced such an attack through their home gadgets reported losses of $1,000 to $5,000 from the incidents.“There’s still this whole sort of, ‘Gee whiz, it’s so cool’ thing that’s going on” with internet-connected home appliances, said Lee Tien, a lawyer for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit that focuses on digital rights. “That’s also what often gets us into trouble.”As smart home devices become more popular, they will become bigger targets for hackers. So it behooves us to get ahead of the curve by securing our home appliances, using these tips from security experts who have closely studied smart home accessories.When shopping for an internet-connected home device like a smart speaker, lighting system or television set, a good rule of thumb is to go with a trusted brand.Larger, well-regarded companies like Amazon or Google have a background in developing products with security in mind, said Liviu Arsene, an analyst for Bitdefender, which sells security hardware for protecting smart home accessories. Before buying a product, consumers should do a web search on it to see if the company regularly issues software updates that fix security vulnerabilities, he said.People should also carefully read company privacy policies. David Britton, a vice president in the fraud and identity department of Experian, the credit reporting agency, said people should be curious about whether companies themselves were a threat to user privacy.“What are they capturing about you?” he said. “Is the data leaving the device? Is it being sent back to the mother ship?”Consider the smart speakers from Amazon and Google. Amazon said its Alexa smart assistant, which is used in its Echo speakers, automatically downloads software updates to defend against new security threats. Data from the Echo is also uploaded to Amazon’s servers only after people utter the wake word “Alexa,” the company said. That minimizes the likelihood that the device will record conversations unrelated to requests intended for Alexa.Google said its Home speaker similarly issued regular software updates and employed advanced security features, like a technique that disables the device if its software is tampered with. The company added that the speaker processed speech only after the words “O.K. Google” or “Hey Google” were detected.But other large brands occasionally engage in behavior that customers may find objectionable. The smart TV maker Vizio, for example, made headlines with revelations from the investigative news site ProPublica that it kept a detailed record of customer viewing habits and shared it with advertisers, who could then use the information to identify other devices you owned.Your Wi-Fi network is the pulse of your smart home, thus it is a vulnerable attack point. Mr. Britton and Mr. Arsene suggest connecting all your smart home accessories — for example, your Amazon Echo, Nest thermostat, Samsung smart refrigerator and Philips Hue smart lights — onto a Wi-Fi network that is separate from the one connected to your computing devices, like your smartphone, tablet and computer.With two distinct Wi-Fi networks, it will be harder for a hacker to jump from infiltrating your smart accessory on one network to a personal computer on the other network, Mr. Arsene said.The easiest way to create a second Wi-Fi network is to make a guest network. Many modern Wi-Fi routers, like TP-Link’s Archer C7 (the top router recommended by The Wirecutter, a product recommendations site owned by The New York Times), include the ability to host a network for guests that uses a name and password different from that of your primary network. Quarantining your smart speakers, lights and TV onto a guest network will allow them all to interact with one another, while keeping your computing devices safer in the event that any of the smart accessories are hacked.If you are paranoid about your Wi-Fi network being hacked, you can also change the Wi-Fi router’s network settings to disable broadcasting the network name entirely, Mr. Britton said. That would make it difficult for a hacker driving by to detect and compromise your network, though it would also require house guests to manually type in your network name and password when they log on to your Wi-Fi.The same security principles for websites apply to the so-called internet of things. You should set strong, unique passwords for logging into each device you own. If you recycle your passwords and one device is compromised, the others can be, too.A strong password can be a random string of characters or a nonsensical phrase with numbers and special characters. (Examples: My favorite number is Green4782# or The cat ate the CoTTon candy 224%.)If you cannot memorize your passwords, that is a good thing: That means they are hard for hackers to crack. Keep them written down on a piece of paper and stored in a safe place, or store your passwords in a password-managing app like 1Password or LastPass.While reputable manufacturers of smart home accessories offer software updates to patch security vulnerabilities, it is often up to the consumer to stay on top of updates. Because it lacks a screen, a smart light bulb or an internet-connected power socket is going to have a tough time informing you that it needs a software update.Mr. Britton and Mr. Arsene recommend that consumers regularly log into the mobile apps or websites for their smart home accessories to check if they need software updates. If updates are available, install them immediately.Among security researchers, putting a piece of tape over a computer webcam has become a tongue-in-cheek recommendation for those who are extra paranoid about their privacy. (Even Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, does it.)With smart speakers like the Amazon Echo and Google Home, there is an equivalent: a mute button to disable the device microphone so it can no longer listen. In the unlikely event that a device is hijacked, muting the microphone could help prevent hackers from listening to your conversations, Mr. Britton said.Or you could go the safest route and opt out of having these devices at all. That was the method chosen by Mr. Tien, the lawyer for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, who previously studied the privacy risks of smart meters, the devices that utility companies use to monitor energy consumption.He said he accepted the privacy implications of owning a smartphone, but a smart home accessory?“I think it’s sort of asking to have your privacy invaded to have something like that,” he said. “I’m not sure that the value of it is really all that great.”
BANJUL, Gambia — A week after he was inaugurated in another country, Adama Barrow landed in Gambia on Thursday afternoon, setting foot inside his own national borders for the first time as the new president.Throngs of supporters, some holding Gambian flags, lined the roads to greet Mr. Barrow, who had flown in from Dakar, Senegal, where he had fled more than a week earlier out of security concerns after his predecessor, Yahya Jammeh, refused to step down. As he entered Banjul, the capital, Mr. Barrow, dressed in all white, poked out of a white Land Cruiser surrounded by military vehicles and waved to onlookers.“Today is freedom day,” said Mariama Bah, a nurse from Serekunda, a town nearby, who came to the airport to welcome President Barrow. “We now have a president that we can be proud of.”Mr. Barrow defeated the longtime president, Mr. Jammeh, in a surprising outcome to an election in December. Mr. Jammeh, who had been in power since 1994, when he led a successful coup, initially accepted defeat. A few days after the vote, he changed his mind, declared the election results invalid and vowed to use the power of his military to stay in charge.It took repeated personal overtures from West African presidents and finally a regional coalition of troops that crossed into Gambia to persuade Mr. Jammeh, known for human rights abuses, to step down. He flew out of the country on Saturday, accompanied by a cargo plane containing his Rolls-Royce and other luxury automobiles, and has settled in Equatorial Guinea, which has its own record of human rights violations.Mr. Barrow’s arrival capped a tense period for many Gambians who had feared a bloody end to the presidential standoff. Tens of thousands of residents had been so worried that they fled the country, though many have already returned.But Mr. Jammeh still has supporters left in Gambia, and some residents worry that divisions could lead to problems in the new administration. Mr. Barrow has dismissed his predecessor’s supporters as a minority. Most of all, many residents said they were weary of the regional troops who were still roaming the capital. They had arrived at the statehouse to search it and make sure all was safe for Mr. Barrow’s return, but their presence on the streets was unsettling to many. Mr. Barrow’s aides said the soldiers were likely to remain in Gambia for weeks as the new administration makes the transition.Some Gambians worried that it was still too early for Mr. Barrow to come home.“Yahya Jammeh was not acting alone,” said Ishmael Ceesay, 24, a mobile phone salesman in Serekunda. “His people are still around.”Mr. Barrow’s aides said the president would stay at a private residence until the regional troops finished securing the statehouse.Mr. Jammeh’s rule penetrated the psyche of many Gambians who feared him, so much so that thousands fled years ago. Their departure further damaged an already shaky economy that Mr. Barrow has said will be a priority for him.Mr. Jammeh jailed journalists and his opponents, some of whom died in prison, carried out hunts for people believed to be witches and forced patients to stop taking medication so he could test what he said was his homemade cure for AIDS — herbs, prayers and a banana.Residents of Gambia talked about Mr. Jammeh only in hushed tones, and rarely in public, and even some members of the diaspora said they were convinced he was monitoring their communications.Mohamed Jalloh, who sells fabric at the entrance to the statehouse, said he had spent the past two decades praying a bullet would not come flying toward him.“Yahya Jammeh brought so much fear in us,” Mr. Jalloh said.The paranoia was evident even this week, with Mr. Jammeh hundreds of miles away, when a Gambian newspaper reported that he had left toxins in the vents in the statehouse to poison his successor. Mr. Barrow’s team said the report was false.For many Gambians, the pain of Mr. Jammeh’s rule was all too real. Some residents said part of Mr. Barrow’s new job would be comforter in chief. Mr. Barrow has vowed to create a truth and reconciliation commission to look into injustices during Mr. Jammeh’s more than 22-year administration.On Wednesday afternoon in Brikama, the region where Mr. Barrow received the most votes, three women sat on a long wooden bench. They wore yellow #GambiaHasDecided T-shirts, a motto adopted by the opposition that wanted Mr. Jammeh to leave. Like many others across Gambia, each of the women said a relative had been killed by security forces loyal to Mr. Jammeh. As they sold sugar at the market, the three spoke of their losses.It was during the 2011 presidential election campaign that Nyima Jabang’s father, an ambulance driver, was tortured and killed while in custody at the National Intelligence Agency. His crime: driving two men to a hospital who had been wounded at a rally in a clash between Mr. Jammeh’s party and the main opposition party, the United Democratic Party.The next day, the brother of Nyima Sanyang, another of the friends selling sugar, was arrested by security forces in connection with the campaign clash and was beaten to death.The third woman, Bintu Sonko, 30, described the long, speeding motorcades that carried Mr. Jammeh and his aides, who would toss packets of cookies to supporters.In 2013, Ms. Sonko’s son, Lamine, 7, heard Mr. Jammeh’s cars approaching. He ran out with his friends to wave to the passing president. Lamine darted into the street to catch a cookie and was struck and killed by a car in the motorcade.“They did not even stop,” Ms. Sonko said. “They kept going and throwing cookies at the rest of the kids. We can’t even report the matter to the chief or the police.”“That was my only child.”
Vanessa Crawford’s list for Costco this week included these items:Toilet paper.Paper towels.Garbage bags.Dish soaps.Detergent.Bulk jar of honey.That was Ms. Crawford’s share of the shopping for a Syrian family of three: a grandmother, 78, her daughter, 52, and granddaughter, 16, who fled Damascus four years ago and were due to take refuge, at last, in the United States next week. (The daughter’s husband died in Damascus of natural causes, a relative said.)Their resettlement was being sponsored by a community group in the Spring Glen section of Hamden, Conn.“We had a list, like a wedding registry, of all the things we needed to set up house for a family,” Ms. Crawford said. “Those are the things I signed up for.”Money was needed, too, to help pay for housing while the family got on its feet. Last Tuesday, the group — called the Spring Glen Alliance for Refugee Settlement, which is allied with the Spring Glen United Church of Christ — started to raise funds online through Crowdrise. By Friday, it had collected more than $10,000, said Megan Khan, a member of the group.Three synagogues in the area had also sponsored refugee families. In other cities and towns, apartments were rented, furnished and made ready, some by faith groups, some by neighbors. But in all these cases, the families were not chosen by religion, or country of origin, but by their need.These sponsors were a neighborhood or a parish or a congregation, the United States, pixel by pixel. At that local, practical level, executive orders on refugees are not baffling pronouncements, indifferent to human needs, but shopping lists for dish detergent and diapers and too many rolls of paper towel.The Syrian family bound for Connecticut had been living in Jordan since leaving Syria in 2013, said Ghassan Atohmashli, a distant cousin who lives in West Haven and provided a valuable credential in the United States approval process: a family tie. Mr. Atohmashli and his relatives are clients of Integrated Refugee & Immigrant Services, or Iris, an agency that resettles refugees in Connecticut and collaborates with the community and religious groups to get newcomers set up.“They were going to go to Cairo on Feb. 6 and then to the United States,” Mr. Atohmashli said.That was to be the end of a long process that began with an application to a United Nations commission for refugee status in 2013. A ruling that someone is a refugee can take years, and periodically requires new interviews. After that, the United States screening process begins. A State Department website describes the process:“U.S. Security screening of all refugees involves multiple U.S. agencies, including the Departments of State, Homeland Security (DHS), and Defense, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the National Counterterrorism Center, the Terrorist Screening Center, and two federal intelligence agencies,” according to a State Department fact sheet dated Jan. 20.After months of questioning and paperwork, the family was approved. They bought three airline tickets at $950 each, Mr. Atohmashli said. On Friday, just as the Spring Glen group had topped $10,000 in its fund-raising, President Trump issued an executive order that indefinitely barred all immigration by people who had come from Syria.“They don’t know how they are going to survive in Jordan,” Mr. Atohmashli said. “The mother works a bit, but she can’t do everything, and the older woman can’t work.”The executive order does not frame the new restrictions in religious terms, but was issued in a context that could hardly have been more explicit. One of the president’s advisers, Rudolph W. Giuliani, said Mr. Trump wanted a ban on Muslims but needed “the right way to do it legally.” During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump promised a “total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States” until officials had studied the matter. And Mr. Trump said last week in an interview that Christian refugees would be given priority for visas.The existing vetting process gave ample opportunity to identify people with terrorist inclinations, Mr. Atohmashli said. “They ask you a hundred questions, from the first meeting, they could tell if you are ISIS,” he said. “Or at least from the second.”To Chris George, the executive director of the resettlement agency, the explanation for their sudden exclusion was obvious. “Wrong nationality,” he said.Mr. Atohmashli, who came to the United States last year, said he had no regrets about his move. “Every government is different from its people,” he said. “I know this isn’t coming from the American people.”He had seen firsthand the Americans and their shopping lists.
Men whose prostate cancer comes back after surgery are more likely to survive if, along with the usual radiation, they also take drugs to block male hormones.The finding, published Wednesday in The New England Journal of Medicine, comes from a long-running study that experts say will help clarify treatment for many patients.After surgery to remove the prostate, more than 30 percent of men have a recurrence, and until now there has not been clear evidence about the best way to stop the disease from killing them. Most are given radiation, but prescribing drugs to counter the effects of male hormones has been inconsistent.The study, paid for by the National Cancer Institute, showed that among men who received radiation and hormonal treatment, 76.3 percent were still alive after 12 years, compared to 71.3 percent who had radiation alone.At 12 years, the men who had both treatments were also much less likely to have died from their prostate cancer — 5.8 percent versus 13.4 percent — or to have the cancer spread around their bodies — 14.5 percent versus 23 percent.“This is a big deal,” said Dr. Ian M. Thompson Jr., of the Christus Santa Rosa Health System in San Antonio, who was not part of the study but wrote an editorial accompanying it.“There are so many things we do in prostate cancer that we don’t know if they make a big difference in survival. This is one of the things where now we can say for sure.”He added that he hoped the findings would change medical practice.The medical term for blocking male hormones is chemical castration, and the treatments can cause hot flashes, sexual problems and other side effects. So to put a man through it, said Dr. Anthony L. Zietman, an author of the study, “you’d better have some decent justification.”Dr. David F. Penson, the chairman of urologic surgery at Vanderbilt University Medical Center, said the study “gives more credence to the concept that you have to treat the whole patient,” rather than just irradiating the area where the cancer used to be.He said the idea of blocking hormones in men like those in the study was finding its way into medical practice.About 161,360 new cases of prostate cancer and 26,730 deaths are expected in the United States in 2017, according to the American Cancer Society.The average age at diagnosis is 66. Globally, there were 1.1 million cases and 307,000 deaths in 2012, the most recent data available from the World Health Organization.The study, begun in 1998 and led by Dr. William U. Shipley, a radiation oncologist at the Massachusetts General Hospital, had an ambitious goal: to follow the patients long enough to find out whether hormone-blocking treatment would affect their survival.Prostate cancer grows slowly, so it took well over a decade for answers to emerge. Researchers and patients from 150 sites in North America participated. The patients were 760 men who had their prostates removed for cancer that had not spread, but who then had a sign of recurrence — a rise in their blood levels of prostate-specific antigen, or PSA, a protein associated with prostate cancer. The men in the study had PSAs of 0.2 to 4 nanograms per milliliter.“That’s just like the first wisp of smoke,” said Dr. Zietman, who is a professor of radiation oncology at Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School. “There’ll be fire someday.”The fire might take five, 10 or 15 years to break out, but Dr. Zietman said, “Many are in their 50s or 60s, and will live long enough to get into trouble.”The traditional practice for a rising PSA after surgery has been to give radiation, which targets only the pelvis.The idea of the study was to add hormonal treatment, which might stop minute clumps of cancer that had spread to other parts of the body.All the men in the study had radiation for six and a half weeks. For two years, half also received a hormone-blocking drug, bicalutamide, and the other half were given placebos. They were followed, on average, for about 13 years.“This is the first trial that’s shown, if you follow these patients long enough, there is a real difference,” Dr. Zietman said. “More people survive 15 years later.”Men who had more aggressive cancers — reflected by higher PSA readings after surgery and by the pathology and surgical reports on their tumors — had the most to gain from the hormone-blocking treatment.The results do not mean that every man with a rising PSA after surgery should have hormone treatment, Dr. Zietman said. Men 75 or older may not need it, because they may die from other causes before the cancer can catch up with them.“But if they’re younger and with a longer life expectancy, treatment is reasonable,” he said.Bicalutamide causes men to develop breasts and potentially other problems, and the high dose given in the study is no longer used in the United States.Other hormone-blocking drugs like Lupron have mostly taken its place, and may be even more effective, Dr. Zietman said. The study proved the concept that hormone blocking increases survival, he added, so other drugs that do the same thing should also help patients live longer.Another study in progress in Canada and Europe uses the newer drugs, and is trying to determine whether taking them for six months, rather than two years, might be enough.
Airline passengers are used to the announcements that come before full flights are about to take off. The plane is overbooked, they are told, and two volunteers are needed to give up their tickets. For their trouble, they will be rebooked on the next flight and compensated with a little cash.But now imagine instead that the attendant on the intercom named two passengers — ones who had bought their tickets early and had stuffed their bags into the overhead compartments already — and then summarily ordered them off the plane and wished them the best of luck finding some other way to get to St. Louis.Welcome to what continues to be the wild world of recruiting in the top tier of major college sports.Wednesday is college football’s national signing day, when prospects can finally ink their names on national letters of intent — binding documents that lock in the offers of athletic scholarships that colleges have made to them. But until players sign on the dotted line and, typically, fax their letters in (signing days are practically keeping the fax machine industry in business), agreements made beforehand are only as solid as the word of the parties who made them. A coach can pull a scholarship if he lands a better player. A player can renege on his commitment if he decides to sign elsewhere.This year, Connecticut’s Randy Edsall and Florida Atlantic’s Lane Kiffin faced criticism after recruits accused them of withdrawing scholarship offers only weeks before signing day, leaving the players scrambling. Last season the same charge was leveled at Michigan’s Jim Harbaugh and Maryland’s D. J. Durkin. But recruits do the same thing, with dozens of high school prospects decommitting in the weeks before signing day.In fact, virtually everyone involved in the process feels it is flawed, and getting worse.“What’s happening with the word ‘commitment’?” asked Chuck Kyle, the longtime football coach at St. Ignatius High School in Cleveland. “What are we teaching these young people?”The N.C.A.A.’s Division I Football Oversight Committee took steps on Jan. 17 to give commitment a narrower definition, recommending recruiting changes intended to harden prospects’ appreciation of different suitors and urging the creation of a new signing period in December, more than a month ahead of the current one, which would be retained.But not all are satisfied. “We’re forcing kids to make decisions before we can accept them,” said Ty Darlington, a former Oklahoma offensive lineman who now works for the university, and who had served on a recruiting working group while he was still an athlete. He had pressed for a summer signing period, which the committee rejected.While coaches’ reneging on scholarships is not a frequent occurrence, it does happen. Though Edsall and Kiffin pulled offers, each is new to his program and had not recruited the prospect in question. Other past offenders include not only Harbaugh and Durkin but Louisville Coach Bobby Petrino, the former Texas Coach Charlie Strong and Alabama Coach Nick Saban. (In many cases, prospects were offered “grayshirts,” in which they were told they could enroll but would not go on scholarship until the next spring.)The oversight committee’s proposals, which the Division I Council could vote on as early as April and which could be put in effect by next year’s national signing day, would create a three-day window to sign letters of intent in December — potentially before annual coaching turnover creates incentives for coaches or prospects to change their minds — and to allow official visits, at colleges’ expense, as early as the spring before high schoolers’ senior years.Noting that all 10 conferences in the top-tier Football Bowl Subdivision were represented on the oversight committee, the commissioner of the Mid-American Conference, Jon Steinbrecher, who is on the committee, said he expected the recommendations to be adopted. The American Football Coaches Association voted in January to support the December signing period.Steinbrecher said he had seen statistics indicating that the majority of Division I football prospects verbally commit early and that many do so before going on official visits. The current system, which bars official visits until September of a player’s senior year, often during high school seasons, is seen as a disadvantage to teams that are not in recruiting-rich areas where prospects can unofficially visit at minimal cost and with minimal effort.“It’s hopefully an opportunity for both parties, if they wish to partake of it, to get more information about each other,” Steinbrecher said of earlier official visits.There remains a fundamental asymmetry between coaches and prospects that Josh Helmholdt, a recruiting analyst at Rivals.com, summed up: “College coaches recruit 20 to 30 kids each class. A kid gets one school.”Helmholdt added that he was more sympathetic to the prospects who decommit than to coaches who renege on offers. “Most come into this completely green, totally naïve and just trying to keep their heads above water,” he said of the recruits. “They’ve been doing everything they’ve been told to do. They find out in December or January they’ve lost their scholarship — that’s on a totally different magnitude than a college coach having a four-star flip on him.”The relative lack of leverage for prospects was a prime reason Darlington, among others, supported a signing window during the summer, something the oversight committee advised against. Many coaches oppose the earlier signing window, according to several participants in the process.“We felt like summer was too early because that meant coaches could change, assistants could leave,” said Mack Brown, the former Texas coach who is a commentator at ESPN.Plus, he added, “Coaches don’t want to spend all summer recruiting.”But Darlington suggested that some coaches opposed an earlier signing window because it denied them the ability to evaluate prospects’ senior seasons and because it created the potential for academic eligibility issues. “If there’s not enough academic info, then we shouldn’t be offering them,” Darlington said of the eligibility objection.Helmholdt agreed, saying the December signing period was largely “redundant,” as it would not solve the problem of players getting offers during their junior or sophomore seasons only to have coaches later change their minds.“What’s been lost,” added Kyle, of St. Ignatius, “is what a commitment means, both by the athlete and also the colleges.”
Almost 50 years ago, Robert Smithson, along with his fellow artists Michael Heizer, Walter De Maria and other adventurous colleagues, pioneered earthworks, an audacious — and short-lived — movement of the 20th century. Named for a sci-fi novel that Smithson read in 1967, earthworks represented a new genre of landscape art. Instead of painting a view of nature, sculptors created their own massive works outdoors on mesas, moraines and even the floor of the Mojave Desert. In 1971, Mr. Heizer told me: “You can’t really find a harsher climate than where a majority of my work exists right now. It’s in semiarid, flat, windy, heavy rainy season areas.”Rather than using chisels, mallets or welding torches, sculptors rented bulldozers, front-end loaders, backhoes and other heavy-duty vehicles to excavate and construct these behemoths. And they found patrons to subsidize them.“A work on this scale doesn’t end with a ‘show,’” Smithson pithily declared in 1971 in Arts magazine. Having gone to so much trouble, artists wanted their constructions to last indefinitely. And that’s what happened. Monumental works of art such as Mr. Heizer’s “Double Negative,” a long, difficult drive from Las Vegas, and Smithson’s “Spiral Jetty,” located along the banks of Utah’s Great Salt Lake, realized in 1970 and ’71, continue to attract thousands of visitors a year.The original earthworks were never meant to be sold like paintings or statues. That was partly in keeping with the hippie, yippie tenor of the times. They have never come up for auction, although one sculpture fetched as high as $4 million in 2008.How would you even sell an earthwork? I had never pondered the question until a few months ago, when I made my own pilgrimage to see “Broken Circle/Spiral Hill,” a 1971 work by Smithson in Emmen, a town in northeastern Netherlands. The only large earthwork he executed outside the United States, it is in a sand quarry on property owned by Gerard de Boer.Mr. de Boer told me he was contemplating the sale of his quarry business, along with the lake and surrounding property on which Smithson constructed “Broken Circle/Spiral Hill.” Since his own childhood home, now a mini-museum devoted to Smithson’s earthwork, is still there, too, Mr. de Boer pictured the property possibly becoming an artist’s retreat in the hands of a new custodian.To get to Emmen from Amsterdam, you change trains twice. The trip generally takes two and a half to three hours.Smithson constructed his earthwork at the invitation of Sonsbeek ’71, a major outdoor sculpture exhibition. According to a news release from that year discovered in an archive in Amsterdam, “‘Broken Circle/Spiral Hill’ was originally commissioned as a temporary public artwork.” At the time, “No (written) agreements were made concerning the ownership and future maintenance of the work.”Instead of installing art in a park designed during the 18th century, the organizers invited participants to make large constructions in places outside Arnhem, which is about 60 miles from Amsterdam. Smithson applauded the idea of making something that was not a pastoral setting.“In a sense, a park is already a work of art,” Smithson once explained. “It’s a circumscribed area of land that already has a kind of cultivation involved in it.”At 6-foot-3 and often dressed all in black like a character in the B-movies he watched on West 42nd Street, Smithson cut a striking figure. His prescription aviator glasses, slicked-back brown hair, blue-gray eyes and pockmarked skin completed the persona he projected. Initially, he envisioned executing a “pour piece,” which involved having a dump truck pull up to the edge of a hill and release wet concrete or asphalt that would erratically stream down the incline. Once completed, these works resembled viscous interpretations of segments of the Great Falls of the Passaic River in Paterson, N.J. But Smithson, who was born in Passaic in 1938 and raised in Rutherford and Clifton, soon learned that there wasn’t a site high enough in the Netherlands to execute this project properly.Sjouke Zijlstra, a geographer who ran a cultural center in Emmen, told Smithson, who was 33 at the time, about a sand quarry on a lake featuring green — mineral-enriched — water. Smithson had enjoyed working in quarries in the Garden State. Now, in Emmen, he could develop on a smaller scale some ideas that related to “Spiral Jetty.”And so Mr. de Boer, the current owner of Zand-en Exploitatie-Mij, the sand quarry, recently recalled how, when he was nearly six years old, Smithson “literally knocked on our door and asked my father if he could get permission to build an artwork in the quarry.” Though his father wasn’t interested in art, he immediately said yes. Smithson and his wife, the land-art sculptor Nancy Holt, were about the same age as Mr. de Boer’s parents; and, according to Mr. de Boer, the two couples bonded immediately.Two weeks later, using Mr. de Boer’s father’s work force as well as his equipment, “Broken Circle/Spiral Hill” was completed. (Mr. de Boer’s father provided everything to Smithson gratis.) “Broken Circle” combines a jetty with a canal and has a boulder in its center; “Spiral Hill,” carpeted with cotoneaster, a dense green plant, since 1972, was originally composed of black dirt with white sand paths. The section in the water is a centrifugal image; the path of its earthbound companion is centripetal.Unlike his colleagues, Smithson accompanied his earthworks with films, which made them accessible to people who couldn’t travel to see them. But his death at age 35 in a plane crash in 1973 prevented the completion of the film of “Broken Circle/Spiral Hill” until 2011. In it, we learn how Smithson’s artwork relates to both the prehistoric past as well as more recent times. The video opens with a sequence revealing a group of boulders that were transported by glaciers to their present locations during the ice age.In the narration, Smithson mentions, “I’m not interested in excavation,” an operation that sets what he did apart from Mr. Heizer, who displaced 240,000 tons of rhyolite and sandstone when he created “Double Negative.” It is so long and deep it could hold the Empire State Building on its side. Using draglines, Smithson “carved,” as he put it, an earthwork “out of a blunt peninsula in front of a boulder.” After creating dikes, he flooded them. He wanted the water coursing through the openings to evoke the great North Sea flood of 1953 that devastated Holland, causing nearly 2,000 deaths and the evacuation of 70,000 people, and inundating 340,000 acres.“Between violence and calm is lucid understanding and perception,” Smithson also said in Arts magazine in 1971. “What goes on between the raging flood and the peaceful pond? I hope to make that an aspect of the film on ‘Broken Circle/Spiral Hill.’”With sequences shot from helicopters, Smithson also wanted people to be able to experience his art differently than if it were seen in person. In the video related to “Broken Circle/Spiral Hill,” Smithson runs on his earthworks while he’s filmed from a distance. The painter Dorothea Rockburne recently recalled how her friend Smithson had admired the scene in Alfred Hitchcock’s “North by Northwest” where Cary Grant is buzzed by a crop duster in a cornfield.Mr. de Boer remembers that Smithson’s Dutch earthwork was, for him and his brother, “a wonderful playground.” Mistakenly believing bottles containing poetry were buried in the hill, the two boys gamely tried to find them. “There were always visitors who loved the art,” he wrote in an email to me before Christmas. To that end, there is a website so that art pilgrims can make reservations. And the family has maintained Smithson’s earthwork in pristine condition.Asked how he would sell an earthwork, Michael Govan, the director of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, somewhat facetiously, said recently, “You can’t give them away.”For an institution, the weather presents a problem. Many of Mr. Heizer’s earliest works, for example, no longer exist. As for “Spiral Jetty,” for years, there was so much rain and runoff from snow in the mountains, the 1,500-foot coil of basalt rock and rock crystals was submerged. Then, for a while, it returned to optimum conditions. Because of a drought on the West Coast, the lake receded two years ago. Now you walk beside the earthwork rather than on top of it.As head of the Dia Art Foundation, Mr. Govan accepted “Spiral Jetty” in 1999 from the Smithson Foundation and Ms. Holt, who died in 2014. Virginia Dwan, whose gallery on West 57th Street represented Smithson, Mr. Heizer and De Maria and helped finance both “Spiral Jetty” and Mr. Heizer’s “Double Negative,” donated the Heizer to the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles in 1985. “Double Negative” is so immense, it hardly ever suffers the ravages of time and place.With the exception of “Broken Circle/Spiral Hill” and Ms. Holt’s own “Sun Tunnels,” a land-art project near an abandoned railroad community in Box Elder County, Utah, most other classic earthworks years ago became the wards of enlightened museums so that they could be preserved in perpetuity. Even Robert Morris’s huge Observatory, which was also constructed for Sonsbeek ’71 and later reconstituted outside Lelystad, has been annexed as part of a group of six sculptures maintained by the Flevo Landscape Collection.Who could possibly become the guardians of “Broken Circle/Spiral Hill”? Dia has been mentioned. Melissa Parsoff, the spokeswoman for the foundation, said no talks had taken place. Jessica Morgan, its director, thinks it would be a good idea. And then there’s the government of the Netherlands, which has a remarkable record for supporting the arts. It would be quite a coup to add this enchanting earthwork to the list of cultural properties it manages.“It would be a challenge to place an earthwork,” said the dealer James Cohan, who has been the Smithson estate’s longtime agent. “And a real act of philanthropy.”
She had us at the hat toss.Mary Richards was a modest Midwestern girl, to be sure, but she had style, and she had spunk, as her new boss, Lou Grant, pointed out the day she walked into the WJM-TV newsroom in her white go-go boots, a pleated miniskirt and those impeccable manners.When she threw her tam in the air during the show’s opening credits, we knew she was thrilled to be single and on her own in the big city of Minneapolis. But as the series unfolded, and we watched Mary Tyler Moore’s most famous character dress for work in the uniform of career women all over the country — the clingy knit dresses, the matching color-block pantsuits, the Evan Picone separates — she showed us her heart was in that newsroom.Ms. Moore died on Wednesday in Greenwich, Conn.[ Read Mary Tyler Moore’s obituary | 5 great episodes to stream ]There was a cultural sweet spot in the 1970s, as the old social mores unraveled (along with the “sweater girl”) and women flexed new muscles as working women, divorced women, women commited to the single life, newly conscious women — to use the parlance of the second-wave feminist playbook — and fashion reflected the fluidity of that time.As women were reinventing themselves, fashion helped them along. Clothing, even in the office, was colorful and personal; those jersey dresses and knit pantsuits moved with the body. And they were womanly. Mary’s inherent authority — that moral compass — was never compromised by the fact that she dressed in the basic idiom of her gender. (By the next decade, that freedom would be snuffed out, and working girls would ape the rigid suits of their male competitors, but that’s another story.) And like all working women, she wore the same outfit more than once, and so her wardrobe became as familiar as our own.Her predecessor, Ann Marie of “That Girl,” played by Marlo Thomas, was our first television singleton, but paired from the get-go with her boyfriend, Donald. She made her debut in the 1960s, a period that for women on the small screen was still the dark ages.Mary Richards had boyfriends, but they were ancillary to her real life, which played out at work.Looking back at both shows, the clothing displayed the maturation, or the evolution, of the female television avatar. Ann Marie dressed almost like a child in the show’s early episodes, in the cartoonish, youthquake fashions of Mary Quant and others, which Ms. Thomas brought with her from London. The bunny hat notwithstanding, Mary Richards looked like a grown-up .“The Mary Tyler Moore Show” always embraced the real world, and as it unfurled, that world grew a little darker, as did Mary Richards’ clothes. In the final episode, the newsroom is under assault: Ratings are low, and Mary and the gang are fired. But Mary is armored. Clad in a navy blue jumpsuit, like a fighter pilot, her hair cropped to her shoulders, she is strong enough to say goodbye and turn out those lights.
WASHINGTON — After years of railing against the reams of regulations enacted during the Obama years, Republicans this week will zealously embark on an effort to roll back some of those rules using an obscure law known as the Congressional Review Act.Republican leaders have dusted off this rarely used legislation, added to their tool kit in 1996, to quickly reject recently finalized Obama-era regulations, many of which they say impose an excessive burden on American businesses.This week, the House is expected to use the Congressional Review Act to start the process of tossing out five rules, including one that limits the venting of methane, a powerful greenhouse gas, from oil- and gas-drilling facilities and another that requires federal contractors to report previous labor law violations.What is this law, and how will it be used? Let us fill you in.This law is intended to be an oversight tool for members of Congress, offering a check on federal agencies.Congress often delegates the power to carry out parts of laws to these agencies — giving them the authority to fill in the blanks. Under the Congressional Review Act, lawmakers have the ability to make sure that the agencies filling in the blanks are hewing closely to the spirit of the law.Though the time frame can vary, the law allows Congress at least 60 days to review a major rule before it goes into effect. During that period, lawmakers can object, and, if enough of them agree, eventually overturn it with the president’s signature.That is precisely what Republicans plan to start doing this week.Federal regulations dictate scores of things you encounter daily, like the nutrition label that says how much sugar is in breakfast cereal or the airwaves that transmit local radio stations.Proposed regulations generally undergo a lengthy review process that includes research, analyses and public input. But if a majority of lawmakers disagree with a rule — and the president signs off on their effort — the Congressional Review Act gives them a way to stop it in its tracks.As with other legislation, a majority in both chambers of Congress must pass a “joint resolution of disapproval,” as the measure rolling back a rule is called. The measure cannot be filibustered. Republicans hold a majority in both chambers.Yes, though it has been successfully used to overturn a regulation only once. In 2001, with the signature of former President George W. Bush, Congress rejected a rule on ergonomic standards from the Clinton administration’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration.Congress has passed five other joint resolutions of disapproval since the law was enacted in 1996, all under former President Barack Obama, according to the Congressional Research Service. He vetoed each of them.President Trump is highly unlikely to veto congressional Republicans’ efforts to roll back Obama-era regulations.Mr. Trump has said he will relieve what many in the business community denounce as an unmanageable regulatory burden. Shortly after he was sworn in, the White House froze recently completed and pending regulations; the Obama administration took similar action in 2009.Environmental regulations in particular have come under fire for increasing the cost and complexity of doing business, and conservatives in Congress have been eager to undo many of them.No, only the ones completed in recent months. According to Congressional Research Service estimates, lawmakers most likely could target any completed rules submitted to Congress on or since June 13, 2016.In addition to the rules on methane emissions and labor law violations, House Republicans are expected to target a rule that strengthens the permitting requirements and monitoring of coal mining operations that could pollute streams.Also on the agenda is a rule related to requiring companies to disclose payments made to the United States or foreign governments in order to commercially develop oil, natural gas or minerals.Republicans will also look to roll back a rule intended to block those with mental health disorders from being able to obtain a firearm. Under the rule, the government must identify those who receive disability benefits under Social Security and meet several other criteria, then report them to the attorney general to be included in the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.One benefit of the Congressional Review Act is that it prompted the Government Accountability Office to post rules to a searchable online database. See for yourself.
One of the biggest challenges of making a movie about stand-up comedy is that faking laughter is harder than it looks.This became clear during one of the first days of shooting “The Comedian,” starring Robert De Niro as Jackie Burke, an aging comedian trying to resuscitate his career. In a scene in which he turns a wedding toast into insult comedy, Mr. De Niro told the same jokes, take after take, and the energy of the crowd, including many extras, started to fade, the sound of surprise vanishing.Jessica Kirson, a muscularly funny comic who served as consultant for the movie, tried to fix the problem by telling jokes to rewarm up the crowd. “I kept trying to get the audience to stay upbeat,” she said. “It’s De Niro, so they’re excited. But hours later, they are down. He told me: ‘They seem tired.’”In an interview in his office in December, Mr. De Niro emphasized the difficulty of doing stand-up. “I realized that more after doing the movie,” he said. “I respect stand-ups so much. It’s hard.”The history of movie stars playing stand-up comics is checkered, with Dustin Hoffman and Tom Hanks delivering some of their least memorable work in “Lenny” and “Punchline.” In the dark Martin Scorsese film “The King of Comedy” (1983), Mr. De Niro brilliantly played a deranged, aspiring comic. But this new role required a more assured stage presence. Not only is Jackie Burke a veteran stand-up, but also there are several long scenes of him telling jokes. Nothing required more work to get right than the stand-up comedy.Movies are as collaborative as stand-up is solo. No matter how skillfully a director translates live performance, something is lost in translation. And while comedy can be made as quickly as it takes to step onstage, a film requires time, this one more than most. “The Comedian” (opening wide on Feb. 3) was in development for nearly a decade but was actually shot in 27 days. And by the end of the process, the main players still had different ideas about the comedy.It all began with a funny idea. After working on a movie with Mr. De Niro called “What Just Happened,” the producer and screenwriter Art Linson suggested they collaborate on a movie about a comic who makes the woman he’s roasting laugh so hard she dies. (As it happens, Harry Einstein, father of Albert Brooks, did die on the dais after performing at the Friars Club in 1958.) “That excited me,” Mr. De Niro said. “You get one scene, and you want to do the whole movie.”After writing a draft, Mr. Linson realized his jokes were too generic. So he brought the script to the stand-up Jeff Ross, best known for Comedy Central roasts. Mr. Ross ended up making major additions, turning Jackie Burke into a version of himself: aggressive, provocative, quick to attack his audience. Mr. Linson now had a very specific voice. There was only one problem: Mr. De Niro didn’t want to use it. “It was not his cup of tea,” Mr. Linson said. “This doesn’t take anything away from Jeff or how funny he is, but there’s a certain attitude that Bob never felt comfortable with.”Mr. De Niro brought on Lewis Friedman, who had written jokes for him for many award shows and public events. Mr. Friedman, a soft-spoken, thoughtful writer who prefers Bob Newhart to Don Rickles, didn’t like insult comedy and added some self-deprecation to the character’s repertoire. “My father molested my little brother and never touched me” begins one joke. “Do you know how difficult that is when your father doesn’t find you attractive enough to molest?”Even though Mr. Linson says that almost all of Mr. Ross’s jokes were cut from the script, a roast-comic voice remains in the movie, now side by side with a new sensibility. It wouldn’t be the last comic voice added to the movie. Once Taylor Hackford signed on to direct, in 2015 (Sean Penn was also involved as a director at one point), he took Mr. De Niro to the venerable Comedy Cellar for research. Ms. Kirson was on the bill at the club, and when she heard that Mr. De Niro was in the audience, she decided to really play to him in one of her signature bits. After a joke, she turned her back to the audience and in a flat monotone, gave voice to her inner monologue: “It doesn’t matter who is here,” she scolded herself. “Are you going to make it tonight?”The actor and director loved her act and asked if they could use the inner monologue for Burke. She agreed, and by the end of a three-hour meeting, she was hired to write jokes and serve as what Mr. Friedman called Mr. De Niro’s “stand-up whisperer.”Ms. Kirson advised him on how to approach the stage and handle the microphone stand, and she suggested that he needed to smile to make his hostility go down easier. She also trimmed jokes. “I kept saying to Bob: You can’t have these long stories and setups,” she said. “I kept cutting away at it. Lewis is a writer. It’s different.”Mr. Hackford imagined Jackie Burke as a Lenny Bruce-style provocateur sidetracked by television fame. Ms. Kirson thought the comic who most resembles him in the current scene might be Nick Di Paolo, an ornery critic of political correctness. Mr. Friedman said he had no one in mind. There was also disagreement over how good he is supposed to be. “I wanted him to be the best comic in the world, but that was not an argument that I won,” Mr. Friedman said. “It’s Art’s film and Taylor’s film as well. For them, it was more important that he was convincing than good.”During two days of reshoots, the comic Jim Norton was also brought in for advice. “Jim was giving his point of view. Art was giving his. Taylor, too,” Ms. Kirson said. “All of us are putting in our 2 cents, and you’re seeing everyone’s input in one character.”Despite the fact that everyone on the movie says that Jeff Ross’s jokes were mostly cut, Jackie Burke, to me at least, still evokes him as much as anyone.Mr. De Niro said he thought of Jackie Burke as an insult comic who would say anything. “But what does that mean? Is he Lenny Bruce? Is he Jack E. Leonard? Is he Don Rickles?” he said, pausing before his expressive face made a signature expression that evoked a shrug. “We winded up making him what we came up with.”
The fish in this photo look as if they have frozen to death midjump. But what really happened is more complicated. And while it’s easy to feel sorry for the frozen fish and worry that something has gone terribly wrong, you can take comfort in the fact that their deaths were part of an ecological reboot for the lake where they died.“Sometimes nature seems harsh, but it is all a part of the life cycle of a wetland,” Kelly Preheim, a kindergarten teacher and birder who shot the photo, wrote in an email.The National Wildlife Refuge System, part of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, first shared the photo on its Facebook page as part of a picture captioning contest in December. But it received renewed attention this week after the Department of Interior shared it on Twitter.Ms. Preheim was amazed to see a four-foot wall of frozen fish while birding in Lake Andes National Wildlife Refuge in South Dakota and said she had never heard of this phenomenon. But commenters on Facebook reported seeing something like it before. And in 2014, a man and his miniature schnauzer stumbled upon a whole school of frozen pollock along the surface of a bay in Norway. The man thought the fish had gotten trapped in the bay while trying to escape a predator, and then strong winds and freezing temperatures froze the fish in place.But South Dakota’s “fishcicles” as Ms. Preheim calls them, offer up a slightly more complex story. According to an account she shared when the refuge posted her picture, the fish died in a lake depleted of oxygen.In 2015, at the time the photo was taken, she said, the area around the lake had been suffering from a drought, and water levels were low. Thick ice formed on the lake’s surface that, along with snow cover, blocked sunlight and prevented algae and other aquatic plants from conducting photosynthesis. Without the plants’ converting carbon dioxide to oxygen, the oxygen levels dropped. Plants died and decomposed, depleting even more oxygen. And then the fish suffocated and died under the icy surface before floating to the top by the thousands.The fish did not die by freezing midair.There are two possible explanations for the wall of fish ice in the photo. One is that as the weather got colder, the ice expanded. It reached the shore, cracked, crumpled and shot upward, fish included. Or, it’s possible that strong winds alone pushed the frozen water and its fishy contents upward into an ice wall.Hundreds of bald eagles and gulls feasted on the dead fish that year. But it wasn’t until a full year later that the full effects were seen: Wildlife had exploded around the lake, Ms. Preheim noted on her blog. According to Mick Hanan, a wildlife biologist at the refuge, this bloom of living things resulted because the drought provided a reset for the wetlands. The fish, which were overabundant and non-native, had thrown the whole system off balance. In their absence, nutrients recycled between the soil and water, the water cleared up and the remaining plants thrived in more sunlight. More plants meant more bugs, frogs, fish, snakes and birds that fed on them all.And in case you were wondering, the winning caption was submitted by Adam Seymour, a follower of the refuge system’s Facebook page: “Can someone please hit the Play button?”
Q. How do squirrels build their nests so that they don’t fall apart and dump the baby squirrels?A. Squirrels’ nests, also called dreys, may look like haphazard clumps of leaves but are actually fairly complex in their construction, with several layers of different materials.Tree squirrels also seek out advantageous locations with built-in support, like the juncture of several branches emerging from a tree trunk or a tangle of grape vines. Some squirrels build nests in tree cavities rather than among the high branches.The squirrel begins by roughly weaving a platform of live green twigs. On top of this, soft, compressible materials like moss and damp leaves are added. Then an outer skeleton of twigs and vines is built around the insulated core, and finally, additional material fills in and strengthens the shell.For the familiar gray squirrel, Sciurus carolinensis, the central cavity is about six to eight inches across. Smaller species build proportionally smaller nests.One study of nest materials used by European ground squirrels found that damp leaves and moss provided better insulation than dry lining materials.A 2013 German hidden-camera study of a red squirrel filmed a nest being built in work periods totaling more than three and a half hours over three days. The squirrel carried material to the site with its mouth and front paws; bent stiffer twigs with its head and face; pushed other material into place with its legs; shredded lining components by holding them with the front paws and chewing; and shaped the inner cavity by lying in it and turning around. question@nytimes.com
WASHINGTON — As President Trump signed a sweeping executive order on Friday, shutting the borders to refugees and others from seven largely Muslim countries, the secretary of homeland security was on a White House conference call getting his first full briefing on the global shift in policy.Gen. John F. Kelly, the secretary of homeland security, had dialed in from a Coast Guard plane as he headed back to Washington from Miami. Along with other top officials, he needed guidance from the White House, which had not asked his department for a legal review of the order.Halfway into the briefing, someone on the call looked up at a television in his office. “The president is signing the executive order that we’re discussing,” the official said, stunned.The global confusion that has since erupted is the story of a White House that rushed to enact, with little regard for basic governing, a core campaign promise that Mr. Trump made to his most fervent supporters. In his first week in office, Mr. Trump signed other executive actions with little or no legal review, but his order barring refugees has had the most explosive implications.Passengers were barred from flights to the United States, customs and border control officials got instructions at 3 a.m. Saturday and some arrived at their posts later that morning still not knowing how to carry out the president’s orders.“The details of it were not thought through,” said Stephen Heifetz, who served in the Justice and Homeland Security Departments, as well as the C.I.A., under the previous three presidents. “It is not surprising there was mass confusion, and I expect the confusion and chaos will continue for some time.”Stephen K. Bannon, the chief White House strategist, oversaw the writing of the order, which was done by a small White House team, including Stephen Miller, Mr. Trump’s policy chief. But it was first imagined more than a year ago, when Mr. Trump, then a candidate for the Republican nomination, reacted to terrorist attacks in San Bernardino, Calif., by calling for a “total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States.”In the months that followed, Mr. Trump’s campaign tried to back away from the proposal, which was seen by Democrats as over-the-top campaign rhetoric that would never be reality. Mr. Trump offered few details as the campaign progressed, and as president-elect he promised to protect the country from terrorists with only vague promises of “extreme vetting.”But Mr. Bannon, who believes in highly restrictive immigration policies and saw barring refugees as vital to shoring up Mr. Trump’s political base, was determined to make it happen. He and a small group made up of the president’s closest advisers began working on the order during the transition so that Mr. Trump could sign it soon after taking office.A senior administration official said that the order was drafted in cooperation with some immigration experts on Capitol Hill and members of the “beachhead teams” — small groups of political appointees sent by the new White House to be liaisons and begin work at the agencies.James Jay Carafano, a vice president of the conservative Heritage Foundation and a member of Mr. Trump’s transition team, said that little of that work was shared with career officials at the Homeland Security Department, the State Department or other agencies.There was “a firewall between the old administration and the incoming one,” Mr. Carafano said.One reason, he said, is that when the Trump transition team asked pointed questions suggesting new policies to the career officials, those questions were swiftly leaked to the news media, generating negative stories. So the Trump team began to limit the information they discussed with officials from the previous administration.“Why share it with them?” Mr. Carafano said.R. Gil Kerlikowske, who served as commissioner of Customs and Border Protection under former President Barack Obama, said that his staff had little communication with Mr. Trump’s transition team, who made no mention of a bar on entry for people from certain countries.White House officials in the meantime insisted to reporters at a briefing that Mr. Trump’s advisers had been in contact with officials at the State and Homeland Security Departments for “many weeks.”One official added, “Everyone who needed to know was informed.”But that apparently did not include members of the president’s own cabinet.Jim Mattis, the new secretary of defense, did not see a final version of the order until Friday morning, only hours before Mr. Trump arrived to sign it at the Pentagon.Mr. Mattis, according to administration officials familiar with the deliberations, was not consulted by the White House during the preparation of the order and was not given an opportunity to provide input while the order was being drafted. Last summer, Mr. Mattis sharply criticized Mr. Trump’s proposed ban on Muslim immigration as a move that was “causing us great damage right now, and it’s sending shock waves through the international system.”Customs and Border Protection officers were also caught unaware.They contacted several airlines late Friday that were likely to be carrying passengers from the seven countries and “instructed the airlines to offload any passport holders from those countries,” said a state government official who has been briefed on the agency’s actions.It was not until 3 a.m. on Saturday that customs and border officials received limited written instructions about what to do at airports and border crossings. They also struggled with how to exercise the waiver authority that was included in the executive order, which allowed the homeland security secretary to let some individuals under the ban enter the country case by case.One customs officer, who declined to be quoted by name, said he was given a limited briefing about what to do as he went to his post on Saturday morning, but even managers seemed unclear. People at the agency were blindsided, he said, and are still trying to figure things out, even as people are being stopped from coming into the United States.“If the secretary doesn’t know anything, how could we possibly know anything at this level?” the officer said, referring to Mr. Kelly.At the Citizenship and Immigration Service, staff members were told that the agency should stop work on any application filed by a person from any of the countries listed in the ban. Employees were told that applicants should be interviewed, but that their cases for citizenship, green cards or other immigration documents should be put on pause, pending further guidance.The timing of the executive order and the lack of advance warning had homeland security officials “flying by the seat of their pants,” to try to put policies in place, one official said.By Saturday, as the order stranded travelers around the world and its full impact became clear, Reince Priebus, the chief of staff, became increasingly upset about how the program had been rolled out and communicated to the public.By Sunday morning, Mr. Priebus had to defend the immigration ban on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” where he insisted that the executive order was rolled out smoothly. He also backpedaled on the policy and said that the executive order’s restrictions on entry to the United States would not apply to legal permanent residents “going forward.”As White House officials also insisted on Sunday that the order had gone through the usual process of scrutiny and approval by the Office of Legal Counsel, the continuing confusion forced Mr. Kelly to clarify the waiver situation. He issued a statement making clear that lawful permanent residents — those who hold valid green cards — would be granted a waiver to enter the United States unless information suggested that they were a security threat.But senior White House officials insisted on Sunday night that the executive order would remain in force despite the change, and that they were proud of taking actions that they said would help protect Americans against threats from potential terrorists.That assertion is likely to do little to calm the public furor, which showed no signs of waning at the beginning of Mr. Trump’s second full week in the Oval Office.Mr. Carafano said he believed that the substance of Mr. Trump’s executive order was neither radical nor unreasonable. But he said that Mr. Trump’s team could have delayed signing the order until they had better prepared the bureaucracy to carry it out.He also said the president and his team had not done a good job of communicating to the public the purpose of the executive order.“If there is a criticism of the administration, and I think there is, I think they have done a rotten job of telling their story,” he said. “It is not like they did not know they were going to do this. To not have a cadre of people out there defending the administration — I mean, really guys, they should have done this.”
Conservatories are supposed to prepare students for the demands of the professional music world. Then why has a group of aspiring opera singers at the Mannes School of Music spent the past 18 months learning how to speak into a microphone?On a recent evening at Mannes, Mario Diaz-Moresco rehearsed the opening scene of Robert Ashley’s “Dust.” Mr. Diaz-Moresco is a baritone who earlier this season sang Guglielmo in Mozart’s “Così Fan Tutte” and will soon appear in Barber’s “Vanessa.” But while his “Dust” monologue had many of the hallmarks of traditional art music — rhythmic excitement and relaxation, crescendos and passages where the voice pared back to a fine thread, a little tremor ornamenting a given word — it was distinctly unusual: It was delivered entirely as speech.“Dust,” which opens at Mannes on Thursday, is billed as an opera. At least that is what its composer, who died in 2014, called it. But Ashley’s tersely poetic libretto, about the broken lives and stubborn dreams of the denizens of a public park, is delivered almost entirely in a kind of heightened speech. It requires performers to match the pitch and prosody of their lines to the chords of a prerecorded electronic score that progresses with the ooze and splash of a lava lamp. The few identifiable songs are in a pop idiom. There are instances of something like choral speaking, too, in which members of an ensemble of voices intone a text on different pitches, forming distinct — if still talk-like — harmonies.The production’s music director is Joan La Barbara, a central figure of modern avant-garde vocal music who performed with Mr. Ashley in the 1998 premiere of “Dust.” Passing along her experience with the kind of speech-song peculiar to him also meant introducing students skilled in amplification-free projection to the subtleties of working with a microphone.“You have the possibility of doing something much more intimate: doing it quietly, whispering, actually breathing,” she said in an interview. “You have a lot more freedom to color things differently.”It hasn’t been easy getting “Dust” to the Mannes stage: The production was delayed a year because of the challenge of producing an experimental work in an environment set up for more traditional repertoire. “I’ve had people ask, ‘What are you doing?’ ” said the soprano Julia Meadows, who plays the feisty Lucille. “‘That’s a crazy piece; it’s so irrelevant to what we’re studying.’”But Ms. Meadows said that she relished the chance to perform in a work that takes on contemporary issues like homelessness, addiction and the difficulty of reintegrating veterans into society. “It feels amazing to be doing something that speaks to today, and not the 18th century,” she said.The language of “Dust,” and the demands it places on singers to control pitch and rhythm of the spoken word, are rarely called for outside of Ashley’s body of work. For the young cast, it’s a bit as if they were spending several semesters becoming fluent in Basque. Still, administrators and teachers at Mannes insisted that the benefits to the students would carry over into the professional world.William Gustafson, the production’s director and the associate dean at Mannes, said it was first of all a matter of developing the performer’s experimental “muscle” and sense of openness. Beyond that, he said, “my message to the students all along has been that you don’t bring a different technique to each role you do.”While no singer is expected to be proficient in every style, he added, a successful singing career will span a wide range of repertoire: “The good singers don’t use four or five different voices. They have their core technique and they know how to approach a certain composer in a really authentic way.”And introducing budding opera singers to the experimental side of the genre isn’t necessarily a fool’s errand in an era of openness to new techniques. Works presented earlier this month at the Prototype festival of new-music theater shows how eagerly composers are embracing a variety of vocal styles. One of this year’s premieres, Matt Marks’s “Mata Hari,” had a title character played by an actress in a cast that also included classically trained voices and a jazz singer. Last year “Angel’s Bone,” by Du Yun, included a punk aria nestled inside a score that blended Renaissance polyphony with electronica. Many Prototype operas make use of amplification.For Richard Kessler, the dean of Mannes, “Dust” looks forward, but also back, an important link to the experimental tradition of the arts at the New School, a history that features iconoclastic figures like Henry Cowell, John Cage and Martha Graham.“I wanted something that was so made out of whole cloth that it would provoke debate,” he said. “I would love to hear kids talking in the hallway: ‘Was this opera or not? What exactly is opera?’ If that will happen, I will be happy.”
This week, shortly after her 60th birthday, Colo, the first gorilla born in human care, died in her sleep. Part of the reason she lived so long — about 20 years longer than gorillas born in the wild — is because of the care she received.In zoos today, keepers work to reduce the stress of caregiving by training animals to be a part of their own care. Gorillas drink from bottles. Rhinos learn to get their teeth brushed. Lions are trained to get vaccines.The shooting of Harambe at the Cincinnati Zoo last May spurred debate about whether animals like gorillas even belong in zoos. But most zoo animals won’t be leaving anytime soon, and they require care that emphasizes their welfare if people want them to have long lives like Colo.It wasn’t always the case that zoos emphasized stress reduction in tending to their nonhuman charges. Animals were sedated, anesthetized or motivated with fear and dominance. Consider elephants. Back in the day keepers and elephants stood dangerously close to one another as part of a method called free contact. With this method, a keeper could motivate an elephant to do what was wanted with inhumane tools like food deprivation, prodding with bullhooks or roped restraints, said DJ Schubert, a wildlife biologist at the Animal Welfare Institute.Not all zoos have fully abandoned some outdated methods of managing their animals’ health. But the larger, accredited ones have taken lessons from updated methods for training elephants, and more animal trainers are using behavioral principles of learning and memory to shape behavior with rewards, reduce dangerous contact and allow animals some control in their own care.“We’re not going to be able to emulate what animals do in the wild,” said Dana Hatcher, a nutritionist at the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium in Ohio, where Colo lived. “But we are trying to do things that help recreate these natural behaviors to the best of our abilities.”These are some of the ways animals in zoos and related dwellings can take part in their own care.In human care, a mother gorilla may not want or be able to care for her young. To get past this, zookeepers, like those at Columbus Zoo and Aquarium, become gorilla surrogates who stay with infants at all times.As part of a surrogacy program, human surrogates mimic the behavior of real mother gorillas. They cough like a gorilla when a baby does something out of line. They carry babies on their backs while crawling on their hands and knees. And just as mother gorillas do, the surrogates leave bits of food around their chest area for the baby to take. Through observational learning of these activities, gorillas that could become foster mothers to these infants learn behavior to take over their care.Zookeepers minimize human contact with the gorillas at the zoo by training infants to approach bottles rather than just receive them. The trainers do this by slowly putting the bottle farther away from the baby until it learns that it must get its own food.Animals in human care need shots or vaccines. And just like many humans, zoo animals do not like needles. But they can be trained not to mind.Getting lion cubs to tolerate needles for vaccines, for example, takes a lot of tiny, incremental steps. Often this starts when a trainer pairs a noise-making device called a clicker with a reward like food so often that the clicker eventually becomes an indicator of reward. Through behavioral shaping, the trainer can then click to reward every time an animal performs a behavior more and more like what is desired.To get lion cubs used to being around needles, trainers present a tiny, capped needle to the animal, then a bigger one, and so forth. Every time the animal allows this to happen, it receives a reward. The process can take a few weeks to months, depending on the animal.And to reduce fear of needles, trainers may expose a cub to a needle 100 times, and poke it only once. Within a year, the lion takes vaccines without much fuss.“They lean their shoulders into the keeper and the keeper injects the vaccine. It’s effortless, and it kind of looks magical,” said Adam Felts, a curator of African animals at Columbus Zoo and Aquarium. “The animals say: ‘Thanks. Can I get my food?’ And they walk away.”Through a procedure called target training, giraffes learn to associate a tennis ball on a stick with a reward, and to move different body parts in the direction of that target. A giraffe can follow a target and learn to put its foot on a block to receive hoof care.Through more shaping and rewards, black rhinos learn to let caregivers brush their teeth to prevent gum disease. By rewarding them with a big scratch, trainers can get them to hold still for dental care. In a similar way, keepers train polar bears to tolerate nail trims and eye drops.“They learn to cooperate. It’s kind of like a mutual agreement between the trainer and the animal,” Mr. Felts said. “When you’re training, you’re giving them things they want, and they learn over time and repetition that the keepers are able to do things with them to help assist with their care.”More than a dozen African species live together in a big field the Columbus Zoo calls a savanna to mimic the real one in Africa. When the weather is bad, or the animals need vitamins or checkups, they must return to the main zoo one species at a time, or stampedes and other dangerous events can occur.By pairing the sound of a musical instrument with a reward like food, the animals learn that when that sound is heard, it is time for their species to congregate and move in. Lions respond to a bullhorn. Giraffes respond to a bell. And the wildebeests, which are always last to go inside, come to the shake of a tambourine. Some of the animals are so well trained that they start lining up as soon as they see the keepers’ vehicle pull into the savanna.
WASHINGTON — Since the death of Justice Antonin Scalia last February, the Supreme Court has been evenly divided between Democratic appointees and Republican ones. This has resulted in occasional deadlocks and many narrow decisions.A new justice appointed by President Trump would revitalize the court’s conservative bloc. The balance of power would then return to the one in place since 2006: leaning right, but tempered by the occasional liberal votes of Justice Anthony M. Kennedy.Mr. Trump said in a Twitter post on Monday that he would announce his pick on Tuesday at 8 p.m.Here is a look at how a court with a reinvigorated conservative wing might act.So long as Justice Kennedy continues to support the broad outlines of the constitutional right to abortion established in 1973 in Roe v. Wade, the addition of a new justice is not likely to make a difference.In June, Justice Kennedy reassured supporters of abortion rights on this point, joining the court’s four-member liberal wing to strike down parts of a restrictive Texas abortion law by a 5-to-3 vote. A new justice opposed to abortion rights would tighten that tally but not tip it.Justice Kennedy had once before voted to find an abortion restriction unconstitutional, in Planned Parenthood v. Casey in 1992, when he joined Justices Sandra Day O’Connor and David H. Souter to save the core of Roe v. Wade.All three of those justices were Republican appointees who, on this issue at least, disappointed some of the conservatives who had supported their nominations. Mr. Trump has said that his nominee will vote to overturn Roe.In June, the court upheld a race-conscious admissions program at the University of Texas by a 4-to-3 vote. Justice Elena Kagan was recused but would almost certainly have voted with the majority, making the effective vote 5 to 3. Here again, a single Trump appointment would not tip the balance.Justice Kennedy, the author of the majority opinion, has long been skeptical of race-sensitive programs and had never before voted to uphold an affirmative action plan. He dissented in the last major affirmative action case.There are other cases in the pipeline, including one challenging Harvard’s admissions policies. But Justice Kennedy is unlikely to retreat from his position in the Texas case, and a new four-member conservative bloc would probably not vote to add an affirmative action case to the court’s docket unless its members thought they could attract Justice Kennedy’s vote.A threat to public sector unions that ended in a deadlock last March could soon reach the court again. This time, the challengers are likely to gain a fifth vote.When the case was argued in January 2016, before Justice Scalia died, the court’s conservative majority seemed ready to say that forcing public workers to pay fees to unions they had declined to join violated the First Amendment. Justice Scalia’s questions were consistently hostile to the unions.A ruling allowing workers to avoid paying fees for activities like collective bargaining has been the subject of a decades-long campaign by conservative groups that seek to weaken unions representing teachers and other public employees. A new Trump appointee would probably hasten such a ruling.A few days before Justice Scalia died, the Supreme Court’s five-member conservative majority blocked President Barack Obama’s ambitious effort to combat global warming by regulating emissions from coal-fired power plants.The Supreme Court had never before granted a request to halt a regulation before review by a federal appeals court. The appeals court in this case, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, heard arguments in September, and it is expected to rule soon.But the stay issued by the Supreme Court will remain in place until, at the earliest, it decides whether to hear an appeal from the appeals court’s ruling should the losing side seek review. Once the court’s conservative wing is back at full strength, environmental groups will have reason to be nervous.Other cases concern actions by the Obama administration that may be reversed under Mr. Trump. If that happens, the cases they gave rise to may not reach the court or may be dismissed.In May, for instance, the court unanimously returned a series of cases on access to contraception to the lower courts for further consideration in the hope that the two sides could settle their differences. That seemed unlikely given the divide between religious employers on one side and the Obama administration on the other, and at least some of the cases were widely expected to return to the Supreme Court in one form or another.The Trump administration may well accommodate the religious groups’ objections, removing the need for further Supreme Court review.Something similar may happen in a case on transgender rights currently on the Supreme Court’s docket. The case revolves around the Obama administration’s interpretation of a federal regulation under a 1972 law that bans discrimination “on the basis of sex” in schools that receive federal money. Here, too, the Trump administration may offer a different interpretation of the regulation, raising the possibility that the justices would dismiss the case.Another vacancy during Mr. Trump’s presidency is entirely possible. The three oldest members of the court are Justice Kennedy, who is 80, and the senior members of its liberal wing, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, 83, and Justice Stephen G. Breyer, 78.Should Mr. Trump have the opportunity to replace one of those three justices, the court would in all likelihood be transformed into one with a solid five-justice conservative majority. It would enter a new phase, and liberal precedents on abortion, the death penalty and gay rights would be at risk.Indeed, a second appointment to the Supreme Court could be Mr. Trump’s most lasting legacy.
WASHINGTON — The F.B.I. had a job offer for Nick Young, a veteran Washington transit officer: Become an undercover informant for the bureau and gather information at local mosques on fellow Muslims who might pose a terrorism threat.The clandestine work would be “a lot sexier” than his current job, Mr. Young remembered an agent named Ryan telling him. And it could pay him a lot of money if the intelligence was good.Mr. Young turned him down. But it would not be the last time he would see the F.B.I. agent.Last August, five years later, Mr. Young was summoned to the headquarters of the transit agency, Metro, where Ryan and other agents were waiting for him. “You probably don’t recognize me, do you?” Ryan, whose beard was now thicker, asked him. “Oh, I recognize you,” Mr. Young said. This time, the agent handcuffed Mr. Young on a charge of supporting the Islamic State — a case built, in a twist, by an informant who posed as a would-be terrorist fighter.The prosecution of Mr. Young, the only law enforcement officer among more than 100 Americans who have been accused of helping the Islamic State, offers a revealing look at the F.B.I.’s shadowy cat-and-mouse efforts to identify possible Islamic extremists. President Trump has vowed to intensify the effort as part of a campaign to “annihilate” the militant group.Mr. Young’s case also poses a challenge to the F.B.I.’s expanding use of undercover operations to identify Islamic State sympathizers inside the United States who might travel overseas to help the terrorist group or commit “lone wolf” attacks at home. His lawyer claims that the F.B.I. entrapped him, with undercover operatives popping in and out of his life for at least six years.To law enforcement officials, however, Mr. Young represents one of their worst fears: a longtime officer, with access to sensitive facilities, who they suspect was “radicalized” to support Islamic extremism.He is charged with providing “material support” to the Islamic State, in the form of $245 worth of Google Play gift cards. The authorities say he gave the gift cards to a Muslim friend named Mo — in reality, an undercover informant — to support recruitment for the terrorist group.Before now, very few American suspects linked to the Islamic State have spoken out. But in three and a half hours of interviews from jail, Mr. Young, a convert to Islam, portrayed himself and many other American Muslims under investigation as victims of religious persecution. He accused an “overzealous” F.B.I. of “manufacturing” the case.“I know for sure I wouldn’t have been targeted if I was an evangelic Christian or a Sikh or a Hindu or something,” said Mr. Young, 37.“I’m not a terrorist,” he added. “Seeing these horrible allegations and the way they’re trying to paint me, it’s just a nightmare.”Officials at the F.B.I. and the Justice Department declined to comment on the case. In general, the F.B.I. said in a statement, the investigative techniques used in such national security cases “are subject to vigorous oversight and require us to use the least intrusive means possible.”The F.B.I. has moved aggressively since the rise of the Islamic State in 2014 to identify suspected extremist supporters inside the United States, opening hundreds of investigations and generating convictions from Brooklyn to Southern California, often against young Muslim men.Mr. Trump has declared that the country must do more to confront what he calls “radical Islamic terrorism,” including the possibility of expanding surveillance and intelligence operations, creating a “registry” of American Muslims, and reviving torture as an interrogation technique.While Mr. Trump has sent mixed signals on some of those proposals, they have worried some civil liberties advocates, who say they are eager to see whether the Justice Department and the F.B.I. seek to expand their investigative powers still further in domestic terrorism cases.Mr. Young sees himself as a pawn in that broader fight.He acknowledges holding passionate views about the Middle East and the “slaughter” of Syrians by the government of President Bashar al-Assad. On breaks from the transit agency, Mr. Young traveled to Libya twice in 2011 with body armor to join rebels fighting the Qaddafi regime.“I didn’t kill anyone while I was there,” he said, laughing, but “I got shot at a lot.”He insisted that he had never supported terrorists. He plans to take the witness stand at his trial, an unusual tactic for a terrorism suspect. “Nick doesn’t have anything to hide,” said Nicholas D. Smith, one of his lawyers.As he waits for his trial date, he sits in a rural jail in Warsaw, Va., reading science fiction occasionally, with “The Jerry Springer Show” sometimes playing on a television in the background. “My brain’s turning to mush,” he said.He said the jail had denied him access to Muslim prayer sessions. But the conditions are far better, he added, than the solitary confinement he was placed in for 23 hours a day for months after his arrest. That ordeal, he said, has caused lingering panic attacks and other problems.Unlike the bulk of the Americans charged with supporting the Islamic State, Mr. Young is not accused of plotting violence or trying to travel to the Middle East to fight with the group.He said he was under investigation for so long, it was almost inevitable that the authorities would find a way to charge him. “At the end of the day, the crime I’m being accused of — a crime of sending gift cards — it would be laughable if it wasn’t really happening,” Mr. Young said.He declined to explain the gift cards, citing a pretrial order that restricts what he can say about documents in the case. But he said his explanation would come out at his trial.Since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, dozens of terrorism defendants caught in undercover stings have claimed in court that they were illegally entrapped into saying or doing incriminating things. None have succeeded.Judges have given the Justice Department wide latitude in using undercover stings in terrorism cases. “You almost need a perfect case” to prove entrapment, said Seamus Hughes, a terrorism expert at George Washington University’s Program on Extremism, “and that’s difficult to find.”Still, several legal analysts said Mr. Young might have a legitimate shot, because of the unusual elements of the F.B.I.’s yearslong undercover investigation. They point out that even an obstruction-of-justice charge that Mr. Young faces is based on his statements to agents about a fictional F.B.I. investigation into the whereabouts of a would-be Islamic State fighter who never existed.Mr. Young apparently first came onto the F.B.I.’s radar around 2010 because he knew a fellow student at George Mason University, Zachary A. Chesser, who, like him, was a white convert to Islam from Northern Virginia and attended the same mosque.The F.B.I. interviewed Mr. Young that year as part of an investigation into Mr. Chesser, who ultimately pleaded guilty to terrorism-related charges after he was accused of threatening the creators of “South Park” over the show’s depiction of the Prophet Muhammad.Mr. Young does not appear to have been an F.B.I. target at the time, even as undercover informants began giving the bureau reports about the activities of him and some of his associates.He continued working as an armed officer patrolling Washington-area subways and bus lines. He said F.B.I. agents — Ryan and a second agent — had met with him twice in 2011 to recruit him as an informant.Mr. Young said he found the idea of becoming an informant distasteful. The F.B.I. said in a court affidavit that he had used stronger language in a conversation with one of the bureau’s undercover informants, saying that if he were ever betrayed by one, “that person’s head would be in a cinder block” at the bottom of a lake.Based on wiretaps and statements from informants, the F.B.I. reported that Mr. Young had made a number of other incendiary and perhaps even threatening comments over the years about Muslim informants, F.B.I. investigators and “kaffirs” — or nonbelievers.Mr. Young acknowledged that he could have used “a little self-editing” in some of his private remarks. But he said he had never meant them to be taken literally. “Everyone’s capable of saying stupid, blustery things,” said Mr. Smith, his lawyer.Some F.B.I. officials pressed to bring criminal charges against Mr. Young years ago, but the Justice Department rebuffed them because of an apparent lack of evidence that he was involved in supporting terrorism, according to law enforcement officials.It was not until 2014 that Mr. Young crossed the line into supporting terrorism, the Justice Department now alleges. That was when he first met Mo, a Middle Easterner who said he was a military reservist, at a mosque where he prayed. Mr. Young said he had suspected early on that Mo might be an informant because of his strange mannerisms.But his concerns eased, and the two became friends, meeting at a Starbucks or elsewhere. Mo later told Mr. Young that he was thinking of traveling to Syria to join the Islamic State, prosecutors said.While Mr. Young sometimes appeared to offer Mo advice on how best to avoid government scrutiny if he went to the Middle East, he also told him at times that he did not need to join the terrorist group — at least not then, according to the F.B.I.’s account.“There is no one with a gun to your head that is counting down,” he told Mo in a conversation recorded in October 2014.Such statements, said Mr. Smith, his lawyer, show that “the government is really grasping at straws here.” Prosecutors are acting on “really more of a hunch that he might commit crimes in the future,” he said, “and they can’t prove it.”
Sitting on a bar stool, the glass in front of him mostly drained, the actor Richard Roxburgh leaned in to make a point. It was early afternoon on a Tuesday, but the muscles in his jaw were slack, his blue eyes vague.He spoke with quiet urgency, his words faintly misshapen, and when he gestured for emphasis, he didn’t seem to notice that his hands were right in my face. The sober boundaries of social behavior had dissolved, abruptly, in an alcoholic haze.That was the idea, of course. Perched in the window of an espresso bar on West 47th Street, drinking nothing stronger than a cortado, Mr. Roxburgh, 55, was demonstrating a well-honed skill: playing drunk.“In terms of the study of alcohol and its effects, I probably have an unfair advantage in that I am, A, Australian, and, B, an actor,” he said, his eyes perfectly clear now, glinting with humor. “I’ve had probably an unhealthy overexposure to the shenanigans of booze over time.”If so, he’s putting it to good use. Through March 19 at the Ethel Barrymore Theater, he’s starring opposite Cate Blanchett in “The Present,” a Chekhov adaptation that floats along on a vodka tide, gradually snaring his character, Mikhail, in the undertow. (It does not help that Mikhail downs a whole bottle of the stuff in Act III.)Back home, on the Australian television series “Rake,” Mr. Roxburgh has spent several seasons playing a different sort of alcoholic, a lawyer determined even in middle age to keep the party going.Performing drunkenness requires striking what is, for many actors, an elusive balance — somewhere between sloshy and straight. “Seeing bad drunk acting is probably like watching an actor trying to squeeze out tears,” Mr. Roxburgh said. “It’s kind of fingers-on-a-blackboard excruciating.” This is his advice for getting it right.“That would be my first question always: Why are you doing it?” Mr. Roxburgh said. “Because we all do it for a reason.” How to play the character, and the drunkenness, depends in part on the answer.“A lot of what I do is instinctual in a way,” Mr. Roxburgh said, “and it’s based on observations that I made over a life of being surrounded by Australian actors, and stealing from it.”Well, that and muscle memory; a family man these days, he drinks less than he used to. But he’s familiar with the moment when a pleasant buzz gives way to a loss of control, and he recognizes the difference between sanguine drunks and the darker sorts, like Mikhail, whose vodka demons keep him company.Mr. Roxburgh stood up, planting his feet some distance apart. “There’s a stance that might happen at a certain point, which is a kind of slightly wider leg stance. If your legs are together, your center of gravity is a much more dangerous element, and you will literally fall over. A very drunk person, the room is doing this for them,” he said, tilting his arms from one side to another. “It’s as if they’re on a ship at sea.”That doesn’t mean they will lurch or clutch, but they might rest a hand on a chair, “just for a little bit of support,” a fixed point of physical reference. “The more you try and stand up straight, there’s always a part of you that has to know the world is spinning.”“There’s also a very subtle kind of tipping that might happen in the body,” Mr. Roxburgh said, and as he leaned, his eyes clouded over. For a moment, he might have been utterly wasted. “Another element is the gaze, which is that famous middle-distance thing where somebody is talking to you, but they’re not quite there. The world is bleary to them, and your face at a certain point becomes, to all intents and purposes, pixelated. So they’re not looking with any clarity into your eyes.”“It’s fascinating reading things like the police studies into blood alcohol levels and what they actually do to your response times” behind the wheel, Mr. Roxburgh said. “The same thing obviously applies in terms of your conversation, your responses, the way you inhale and feed out information just in the normal sense of conversation when you’re drunk.“But it can be very subtle stuff, I suppose the way you might slightly stutter on a word or rethink the way that you’re going to go into a sentence. It blocks clear thinking; that’s a fact.”Counterintuitive, yes, but Mr. Roxburgh was adamant that this is an essential part of playing drunk: struggling against the sloppier effects of inebriation rather than giving in to them.“Remember that the person that you’re playing almost invariably doesn’t want to appear drunk,” he said. “In bad drunk acting, you see somebody wobbling around all over the place and slurring their words in a very overt way.”In the real world, though, the alcohol-impaired try to get their minds and bodies to obey the normal rules: speaking clearly, making sense, not falling over. And it’s precisely that extra focus that can give their game away. The more determined they are not to seem drunk, Mr. Roxburgh said, the more clearly drunk they will seem.
“Approach making your coffee the same way you approach meditating. Be completely here and now in the present moment, centering your attention exclusively on what you are doing and feeling. Being mindful of how you make your coffee shows you how to be mindful in every part of your life.” — Gloria Chadwick, the author of “Zen Coffee: A Guide to Mindful Meditation.”
Super-short workouts are a favorite topic in this column. I have written about seven-minute, six-minute, four-minute, and even one-minute workouts. They are appealing because they require so little time, but they also demand straining effort.Martin Gibala is the scientist we most have to thank for the popularity of very brief, very hard exercise. All of these workouts are built around the concept of high-intensity interval training, in which you push yourself almost to exhaustion for a brief spurt of minutes or seconds, and then rest and recover for a few minutes before repeating the intense interval.Athletes have long used interval sessions as part of a varied weekly training program to improve their competitiveness. But Dr. Gibala, a professor of kinesiology at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, has helped to popularize the idea that we can rely on high-intensity intervals as our only exercise, and do very, very few of them while still improving our health and fitness.Since 2004, he has published multiple studies about the potent effects of intervals. Perhaps the most important and illustrative was a 2014 experiment that I wrote about at the time. For it, he and his colleagues asked sedentary men and women to complete three 20-second intervals on a stationary bicycle, pedaling as hard as they could manage, with two minutes of gentle, slow pedaling between each interval. This was the one-minute workout.After six weeks of performing three of these sessions per week, for a total of 18 minutes of intense exercise tucked in to slightly longer periods of less intense exercise, the volunteers were significantly more aerobically fit and healthier, with improved blood pressure numbers and markers of muscular health.Because of Dr. Gibala’s studies, I do some type of interval training most weeks now. I no longer have the excuse of skipping workouts because I’m too busy. Now Dr. Gibala has written a new book, “The One-Minute Workout” (co-authored with Christopher Shulgan), which will be published on Tuesday. It details his research and provides a number of different, high-intensity interval training workouts, in addition to the one-minute version.After reading the book (for which I provided an early reader’s review but had no other involvement), I spoke with Dr. Gibala by phone from his office at McMaster University about what science does and does not yet understand about this type of exercise and about how he works out. Here are edited excerpts from our conversation.Q. Whenever I write about H.I.I.T., people ask me whether intense interval training is actually better for you than more-traditional longer, slower types of workouts. Is it?A. “Better” is a loaded word. I don’t think we have proven that one type of exercise is substantially better for you than another, from a physiological standpoint. Both improve health and fitness. But one is far more time efficient. So if the obstacle keeping someone from exercise is time, then H.I.I.T. is the preferred exercise option. I think almost everyone can find a few minutes in their day for a short interval workout.But most of the studies you describe in your book involve stationary bicycling, which usually means a gym membership that not everyone has. Can other types of activity be adapted for H.I.I.T.?Absolutely. That’s one of the great things about interval training. It only requires that for a brief period of time, you push yourself out of your comfort zone. You don’t have to reach any set percentage of heart rate or anything like that. You just need to feel some brief discomfort. You can achieve that by running hard to the next signpost when you are out on a trail or picking up the pace while you are walking. In the book, we describe how different types of exercise can be used for H.I.I.T. We have even shown that you can complete a very effective H.I.I.T. program in a stairwell during your lunch break.Another question I often hear is about weight loss. Since the sessions are so short, does H.I.I.T. burn many calories?In general, exercise is not a huge contributor to weight control. People don’t like to hear that, but it’s true. It is much easier to cut calories in the diet than to burn large numbers of them with exercise of any kind. With H.I.I.T., there is some evidence that you develop a slight metabolic after-burn, meaning that for up to 24 hours after a session, you burn slightly more calories than if you had not exercised. But the numbers are small, so it’s better to eat less if weight loss is a goal.Is one minute the shortest possible H.I.I.T. workout or will I be writing about a 30-second workout soon?I think one minute may be the limit. We are still looking for the exact sweet spot in terms of how little intense effort people can do and still get significant health and fitness benefits. So far, it looks as if three repetitions of 20-second intervals is the lowest effective load. But we are still experimenting. Stay tuned.What is your exercise routine?I do something physical every day, and it’s not all H.I.I.T. I play a weekly hockey game. But life is busy. My wife works and we have young kids. So most of the time, it’s intervals, sometimes on a stationary bike, sometimes on other equipment in my basement. I do high-speed pull-ups and push-ups. I’m like everyone else. I fit in as much exercise as I can, when I can, and that would be my advice to anyone.
Who might benefit from a clinical trial for an experimental cancer treatment?A common misperception is that such trials are strictly for patients who have reached the end of the road and have no more hope of being helped by standard treatments.“But it’s not last-ditch,” said Dina G. Lansey, the assistant director for diversity and inclusion in clinical research at the Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center. New forms of immunotherapy are being tested in many types of cancer, and not just at late stages.Doctors should head off the misunderstanding by routinely mentioning clinical trials early in a patient’s care as a possible future option, Ms. Lansey said. That way, patients may be less likely to believe it is being sprung on them because hope has run out.“It’s less scary if you hear it early on,” she said.But patients themselves are often the ones who seek out clinical trials, rather than waiting for doctors to refer them.There are various ways to find clinical trials. Most major cancer centers post the trials in which they participate on their websites. But those listings will be limited to that hospital’s offerings. Other sites show more options.The best known site is ClinicalTrials.gov, provided by the National Institutes of Health. It may seem daunting: It shows more than 50,000 studies of cancer, with some actively recruiting patients but others already finished or not yet open.An easier approach may be a web page of the National Cancer Institute, which also offers a toll-free phone number, 888-624-1937, that connects to a referral coordinator.Other groups also have coordinators, or “navigators,” who can search databases to help patients find trials that are right for them. The process usually starts with patients filling out a questionnaire with information about their diagnosis and treatment history.The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society offers help to people with those diseases at its website with a tab labeled “patients and caregivers” that leads to information about clinical trials. The group takes calls at 800-955-4572, Monday to Friday, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., Eastern time, and accepts recorded messages outside those hours.For immunotherapy trials for any type of cancer, the Cancer Research Institute can be reached at its website, or by telephone, 855-216-0127, Monday to Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 6 p.m., Eastern time.The American Cancer Society can be reached on its website or at 800-303-5691, Monday to Friday, from 7:30 a.m. to 7 p.m., Central time.Another group that can help with searches is EmergingMed.com, online or at 877-601-8601, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday to Friday, Eastern time.Dr. Steven A. Rosenberg, who is chief of surgery at the National Cancer Institute and leads many clinical trials, said: “Fifteen years ago, more than 90 percent of our referrals came from doctors. Now, I would estimate that at least half of all our referrals come from patients themselves, who read about us on the internet and other places.”People who are accepted into trials at the cancer institute will have all their expenses covered, including travel to Bethesda, Md. But patients themselves have to pay for their initial visit to be screened to see if they are eligible, Dr. Rosenberg said.
Factories play a central role in President Trump’s parade of American horrors. In his telling, globalization has left our factories “shuttered,” “rusted-out” and “scattered like tombstones across the landscape of our nation.”Here’s what you might call an alternative fact: American factories still make a lot of stuff. In 2016, the United States hit a manufacturing record, producing more goods than ever. But you don’t hear much gloating about this because manufacturers made all this stuff without a lot of people. Thanks to automation, we now make 85 percent more goods than we did in 1987, but with only two-thirds the number of workers.This suggests that while Mr. Trump can browbeat manufacturers into staying in America, he can’t force them to hire many people. Instead, companies will most likely invest in lots and lots of robots.And there’s another wrinkle to this story: The robots won’t be made in America. They might be made in China.Industrial robots — which come in many shapes and perform a range of factory jobs, from huge, precisely controlled arms used to build cars to graceful machines that package delicate pastries — were invented in the United States. But in the last few years the Chinese government has spent billions to turn China into the world’s robotic wonderland.In 2013, China became the world’s largest market for industrial robots, according to the International Federation of Robotics, an industry trade group. Now China is working on another big goal: to become the largest producer of robots used for factories, agriculture and a range of other applications.Robotics industry experts said that goal could be a decade away, but they see few impediments to China’s eventual dominance.“If you look at the comparisons in investment between China and the U.S., we’re going to lose,” said Henrik Christensen, director of the Contextual Robotics Institute at the University of California, San Diego. “The investments in China are billions and billions. I’m not seeing that investment in the U.S. And without that investment, we are going to lose. No doubt.”There’s a way to address this problem, but it’s politically perilous: The United States should invest in robots. Mark Cuban, the internet and sports entrepreneur (and Trump nemesis), recently called on the president to offer $100 billion in funding for robotics. Frank Tobe, the publisher and editor of a trade magazine called The Robot Report, said government investment was imperative.“We better do something, or we’re going to be behind the gun,” he said. “We should be in the robot business, not just users of foreign robots.”If we don’t, robot scholars said the president’s plans for a resurgence in manufacturing could backfire. Today, we buy a lot of stuff made in China by Chinese people. Tomorrow, we’ll buy stuff made in America — by Chinese robots.How China learned to love robots is instructive. For years, China’s chief selling point was cheap labor. But over the last couple of decades, its population has gotten older and richer, and its workers’ wages rose faster than the rate of economic growth. Chinese leaders worried that manufacturers would get priced out. In the same way that America lost manufacturing to China, Chinese manufacturers would lose work to India, Vietnam and other developing Asian economies.So the Chinese did what the Chinese do: They centrally planned a revival. Over a succession of five-year economic plans, the government pushed a series of manufacturing reforms. One of its central ideas is automation. Local governments have offered billions in subsidies for companies to buy and manufacture robots. The government has been especially interested in building robots that can be installed in China’s car factories, which have been criticized for poor workmanship. Robots that build cars would not just save labor costs; the government also believes they would build better cars. In 2014, Xi Jinping, China’s president, called for a “robot revolution.”Like other centrally planned initiatives, China’s robotics initiatives have not proceeded without trouble. There have been overinvestment and waste, and many Chinese robotics companies aren’t making very good robots.“Many are low quality, and safety and design standards are really not good,” said Dieter Ernst, a senior fellow at the East-West Center, an organization that aims to improve Asian-American relations. “There are supposedly a bit more than 100 Chinese robot companies. I would say about 50 of these companies may survive.”But the Chinese government and its companies are persistent. Mr. Ernst expects slow, steady gains in the Chinese robotics industry. And in five to 10 years, he predicts, China’s robot business will be producing industrial robots that are on par with those from Germany and Japan.Pushing a robotics revival in the United States would be more difficult than in China, where there hasn’t been much outcry from workers over the government’s embrace of automation.“There is not a public conversation in China about the pluses and minuses of automation,” said Scott Kennedy, a China scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “They don’t talk about the losers in society from globalization or potential automation.”In the United States, on the other hand, losing is all we seem to talk about. Mr. Trump rose to power in part because he crystallized a feeling among voters that we have lost our edge to China. He promised to bring jobs back to America. In a hot-take political climate that can’t stomach nuance, an investment in robots would be seen as a betrayal of the manufacturing workers he promised to save.But that would be a mistake. Mr. Christensen of the University of California, San Diego, pointed out that even the most automated of factories still employ people. To the extent that an investment in robotics might make it easier for companies to build their factories in the United States rather than in China, it might well create new jobs in the United States.What’s more, America enjoys many advantages in robotics that China lacks. Some of the world’s leading roboticists work at American universities. The United States has a start-up culture that knows how to create big new companies. And America has a head start in the most advanced robotics technologies. For instance, American companies are the leading purveyors of surgical robots, and they are at the forefront of “collaborative robotics,” in which robots can work side by side with humans.“All of this robotics technology was invented in the U.S., but we basically let other companies take it from us and make it cheaper, and now we’re buying it from them,” Mr. Christensen said. “In some sense, we’re not being very good at making sure we remain competitive in areas that we’re leading.”And that’s how huge government funding can help, the robot experts said. As in China, an infusion from Mr. Trump could turn some of the most far-out ideas in robotics into a structural advantage for the American economy.“What we can learn from the Chinese example is that the government plays a nurturing and fostering role for developing the robotics industry,” Mr. Ernst said. “We can do the same. We must do the same.”
WASHINGTON — As a candidate, Donald J. Trump made a broad rewrite of the tax code sound simple: Slash income tax rates for people and companies, threaten to punish American firms that seek cheaper foreign labor with a tax on the goods they import from offshore factories, and pay for it with surging economic growth.But President Trump is finding that enacting the first overhaul of the tax code in 30 years will not happen like the raft of executive orders he signed for the television cameras during his first week in office. The contortions that his administration went through over a single part of the tax puzzle — the tax treatment of imports — demonstrated how politically fraught the issue will be, even with Republicans controlling all the levers of power in Washington.While Mr. Trump’s views on a tax code overhaul appear to still be evolving, his economic advisers have been tripped up over the virtues of the taxation of imports and a contentious provision in the House Republican tax plan that would effectively slap a 20 percent tax on imports to generate revenue and encourage domestic production and exports.But there is a broader lesson in that single dispute: Any rewrite of the tax code — especially if it seeks to raise roughly the same amount of revenue that the current code brings in — will leave winners and losers. And the losers tend to make far more noise than the winners. If the president is spooked by those howls, a major tax measure that both the president and Congress have promised may never happen.“This absolutely could be as controversial as the Affordable Care Act because it will create losers,” said Howard Gleckman, a senior fellow at the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center. “We’re seeing just the beginning of this debate.”The debate over the so-called border adjustment has already illustrated the point. This month, Larry Kudlow, the economic commentator who counseled Mr. Trump during the campaign, expressed some of the same concerns that Mr. Trump has shared about the complexity of the plan and warned that it was a form of government meddling that could doom tax reform.“To renegotiate this into some kind of border adjustment, which will penalize imports and subsidize exports, that is an exercise in government planning and complexity that I believe is doomed to fail,” Mr. Kudlow said on CNBC.On the other hand, Stephen Moore, the Heritage Foundation economist who helped develop Mr. Trump’s tax plan during the campaign, has been supportive. Mr. Trump has wavered on the import tax in the face of opposition from American retailers and oil companies, Mr. Moore said, but he expects the president to come around.“I think he saw there was a kind of backlash against it and said we’re not going to do that,” Mr. Moore said. “I don’t think it’s ever been fully explained to him that this is a way of leveling the playing field.”While American manufacturers would surely benefit, fierce resistance is mounting in corners of corporate America that rely on imports. Some are already musing that Mr. Trump’s ambitions may get the best of him and suggesting that a rewriting of the tax code without bipartisan input could turn the legislation into Mr. Trump’s Obamacare: a political anvil that his political opponents use to rally against him.Potential losers made their voices heard last week over the border adjustment tax, an arcane but sweeping change. Similar to the value-added tax used in many countries, border adjustability would help offset the deep cuts that Republicans want to make to the corporate tax rate while preventing the deficit from swelling further. It would subject the money that companies use to import products and parts to income taxation, but exclude from taxation the revenues reaped from exports.The next steps could be politically perilous for Republicans. Mr. Trump is scheduled to meet this week with Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, to hash out their differences on a tax overhaul amid confusion about where the president actually stands.Mr. Trump expressed opposition to border adjustments this month, before backtracking and saying that he remained open to the idea. Then on Thursday his press secretary, Sean Spicer, added to the haziness by suggesting that such a tax was part of Mr. Trump’s broader reform vision — and a way to pay for a wall along the border with Mexico. He then played it down as just one of many options.Academic economists theorize that the proposal would lead to a rise in the value of the dollar, making imports more affordable in spite of the new tax. But businesses that rely on imports are not buying it, and they are already lobbying to kill it. Even traditional Republican allies have been speaking out — especially oil and gas interests like Koch Industries, which import much of their products.“The proposed border tax adjustment will distort the market, increase consumer prices and create an uneven playing field for companies and consumers alike,” said Philip Ellender, president of government and public affairs for Koch Companies Public Sector, the Koch lobbying arm. “Our tax system should encourage, not destroy, free exchange and trade resulting in robust commerce and lower, not higher, prices for consumers.”The resistance was also on display last week as Mr. Brady, who has been the driving force behind the House Republican tax effort, made the rounds at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Financial Services Roundtable, Wall Street’s lobby, to sell the plan and assuage concerns.“We know we are throwing bold changes at the business community,” Mr. Brady told a businessman who represents hundreds of gasoline stations and is worried about inflation. “We don’t expect these models to change on a dime.”Wherever the White House comes down, the Senate will also have to weigh in. Talk of a border tax has rankled senators from both parties, with Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, accusing Republicans of making middle-class Americans pay for the border wall and Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, panning any import tax that would increase the cost of Mexican products.“Simply put, any policy proposal which drives up costs of Corona, tequila, or margaritas is a big-time bad idea,” Mr. Graham wrote in a post on Twitter. “Mucho Sad.”The border adjustment tax is likely the first of many battles that Mr. Trump and congressional Republicans will face as they pursue a comprehensive rewrite of the tax code. Changes to provisions such as mortgage deductions, the deductibility of employer-sponsored health plans and charitable deductions for individual income taxes would lead to far wider protests.The injection of the politically charged border wall into the tax reform discussion has only served to make the debates more rancorous.“The politics of it gets super messy once you start saying that a particular piece of broader tax policy is already going to be dedicated to paying for a certain infrastructure project,” said Tammy Frisby, a tax policy expert at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution, explaining her disappointment that the Trump administration has already been talking about assigning tax revenue. “My optimism for tax reform has plummeted.”
My grandmother, F. Helen Hunt, was tough. I learned this when I was 13, the year I moved alone from London to Clinton County, Ind., to live with her on her 80-acre farm. I sailed in amid the wreckage of my parents’ marriage. Maybe I should say as part of the wreckage.Upon my arrival, my grandmother took one look at furious, hurt, young me and prescribed hugs — she was never stingy with them — and what felt to me, lately prowling the streets of South Kensington and St. John’s Wood, like outrageous amounts of manual labor.These weren’t chores: She paid me, not unfairly, for what I did. But it wasn’t quite voluntary either. I hauled wood, I mowed her enormous lawn with a little push mower, I cleared fallen branches, I raked, I burned, I strung and tested electric fences, I dug holes, I ran a rototiller, I pulled weeds, I knocked down derelict buildings with a crowbar and sledgehammer, I washed windows, I worked a scythe.One of my early jobs was learning how to drive my late great-grandfather’s temperamental 1951 Farmall Cub tractor so that I could tear out a vineyard, relic of a winemaking project started by my aunt and uncle that had by that time, in the early 1980s, run its course. It turned out the Cub had a functioning mowing element, and when I had finished tearing out the rows of Foch grapevines, I regularly used it to shear the grass and weeds of my grandmother’s east and west woods. Even if from time to time I also found myself detasseling corn in hot fields or baling and stacking hay in even hotter barns for neighboring farmers, the core of what I did was always for my grandmother. And I didn’t do it alone.My grandmother stood a smidgen over five feet tall in her Sunday heels, was a retired teacher of Latin who knew all the declensions and had once interviewed Thomas Wolfe’s brother and traveled the world, but man, could she get to it. After school and church duties were done — and there was no monkeying around about either — we went out rain or shine, cold or heat. It didn’t matter if I was walking with a limp or had sore muscles from playing football or basketball the night before. If it wasn’t torn or broken, you worked on it.That first year, on a day when we were shifting old two-by-fours from one spot to another for no clear — to me — reason in a cold, steady springtime drizzle, I let one I was supposed to be holding steady slip, and it smacked her hard in the mouth. I already stood a foot taller than her and outweighed her by 50 pounds and that blow would have laid me out. But my grandmother just spat, instructed me through her swelling lip to get a tighter grip, and we went back to it, got it done. On those occasions when we worked independently — say my grandmother in her greenhouse and me at the woodpile — she was never loath to raise a steely eyebrow in the face of my highball estimates about how many chunks of wood I had carried.I’m painting a picture of a tough-as-nails taskmaster here — the older player-coach who runs everyone else into the ground — but she also remained generous with those hugs. There were kisses too. My grandmother was, in addition, fond of affectionately grabbing and squeezing my forearm. At the end of a big job, or when I’d done something passable at school or on the field, we would link hands, throw our heads back and spin around together. She would also brag about me to anyone, in any context, within earshot, whether she knew them or not. Much as my teenage self rebelled against the one and sometimes only grudgingly tolerated the other, when I look back on it now, it is clear to me that with these sturdy threads of hard work and fierce affection my grandmother was weaving the torn world back together for me.My grandmother’s admirable grit, which she displayed in just about every aspect of her long life (she variously credited these qualities to having been born breach and not breathing or to having come of age during the Great Depression), not only helped see me through my troubled teens and early adulthood, it has become the subject of my life’s work.Indeed, I recently finished my third novel set in and around rural Indiana, featuring strong women as protagonists. These novels, which take place in the deep well of the past, aren’t studies of my grandmother’s life, but they are absolutely and unapologetically inspired by it. Each character is different, each is admirable and flawed in near equal measure, but they all have in common my grandmother’s near-constitutional inability to quit in the face of challenge and a thundering capacity for love.When I first went to my grandmother’s, the idea was that I would stay in Indiana for a year. I ended up staying five with her, and nine if you count college in Bloomington, a couple of hours away. In the process, in the company of my outsize, diminutive grandmother, I grew to adulthood.And although she has been gone for years, I keep her close both in my characters and in myself. There is no way to pay off a debt like the one I owe her, but I make regular payments in the only kind of currency she would have accepted: dedication to the task at hand and the ability, when it has been merited, to link hands with those close to me and spin with joy.
Squeezed between two pieces of diamond, hydrogen has been transformed into a metallic form believed to exist inside giant planets like Jupiter, scientists reported on Thursday.“You can see it becomes a lustrous, shiny material, which is what you expect for a metal,” said Isaac F. Silvera, a professor of physics at Harvard.If some theoretical predictions turn out to be true, the new state of hydrogen could even be a solid metal that is metastable — remaining solid even after the crushing pressure is removed — and a superconductor, able to conduct electricity without resistance, Dr. Silvera said.Dr. Silvera and Ranga P. Dias, a postdoctoral researcher, published the findings on Thursday in the journal Science.But in the small but contentious field of high-pressure physics, some scientists who perform similar experiments were harshly skeptical and wondered how the research passed peer review at a top journal like Science.“It’s — how should I put it? — the product of Ike’s imagination from the title to the end,” said Eugene Gregoryanz, a physicist at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland.Paul Loubeyre, a physicist at France’s Atomic Energy Commission, wrote in an email, “The fact that the paper went through illustrates the fact that the reviewing process has some flaws.”Editors at Science declined to discuss the paper, but in a statement, Jeremy Berg, the editor in chief, said that submissions must pass rigorous review by experts and that only about 7 percent are published.Dr. Silvera defended his work. “If we did it again, we’d get the same result, I’m certain,” he said.Hydrogen is the lightest of elements; each atom consists only of one proton and one electron. In the ordinary conditions at Earth’s surface, where the weight of air presses at 14.7 pounds per square inch, hydrogen atoms pair up into simple molecules.At supercold temperatures, hydrogen molecules first condense into a liquid, then a solid with the molecules intact. When squeezed together, the molecules stack up into a solid form. More than 80 years ago, the physicists Eugene Wigner and Hillard Bell Huntington predicted that hydrogen, under high enough pressures, would turn metallic, with the hydrogen molecules broken apart and the electrons squeezed loose.Scientists have momentarily transformed hydrogen into a liquid metallic state with violent shock wave experiments. Planetary scientists are convinced metallic hydrogen must exist inside Jupiter, to generate that planet’s powerful magnetic fields.But so far, no one has convincingly demonstrated the solid metallic hydrogen state predicted by Wigner and Huntington.In the Harvard experiment, a small amount of hydrogen was placed between two diamond tips about one 850th of an inch in diameter and cooled to -433 degrees Fahrenheit. Initially transparent, the hydrogen became dark as it was squeezed. Then, at nearly 72 million pounds per square inch, the hydrogen became shiny, reflecting 90 percent of light shining on it, the scientists reported.However, they did not make additional measurements to confirm other metallic properties, like the ability to conduct electricity as metals do, and they did not show that it is solid.Only a handful of research teams around the world have been attempting to squeeze hydrogen into a metal. While the experiments are not large — the Harvard apparatus is about the size of a soda bottle — the techniques require care and precision. Imperfect diamonds often shatter under pressure. Hydrogen can leak out. Precise measurements are tricky.Dr. Silvera said his group had developed techniques to polish, etch and coat the diamond surfaces with aluminum oxide to enable the diamonds to squeeze together without breaking.Still, Dr. Gregoryanz was incredulous that the Harvard scientists could have achieved the ultrahigh pressure they report, which is 20 percent higher than their competitors, on the first try, in October, and that they have not yet attempted to duplicate the feat.“You make such a big and bold claim,” said Dr. Gregoryanz, who said he typically has one success out of 10 to 15 tries. “Why didn’t you repeat the experiment?”The pressure estimates are also indirect estimates. “That is probably the weakest point in this paper,” said Reinhard Boehler, a high-pressure scientist at the Carnegie Institution for Science in Washington, D.C., and Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee.“Literally there was a screw turned, and a pressure was estimated,” he said. He said the optical measurements were also weak. “If true, fantastic, but there’s a lot of ifs and buts in this publication.”Dr. Silvera said that he will be performing additional measurements called Raman scattering — shining laser light on it and seeing how the atoms are excited—- and then take it to Argonne National Laboratory in Illinois to probe it with a bright beam of X-rays. Those measurements, if successful, could tell more about the state of the hydrogen.If the sample survives without breaking, Dr. Silvera said he wanted to then open it up, relieving it of pressure, and see if there is a speck of solid metallic hydrogen still inside. Some theorists have predicted that solid metallic hydrogen, if it can be produced, would remain in that state, in much the same way a diamond stays a diamond instead of reshaping itself into graphite, a lower-energy configuration of carbon atoms.
Large lumps scatter across a beach at the mouth of the Tokachi River on Hokkaido, the northern island of Japan. They shine like diamonds beneath evening moon beams and glow like amber under a setting sun. At first glance, the scene looks like the remnants of a giant’s jewel heist gone wrong. But these glistening gems are just ice chunks, spit out by the river and tumbled by ocean waves. They’re called Tokachi river ice, jewelry ice or jewel ice, and they appear only here, and only during the coldest winter months.“I had never heard of this type of ice and have never seen any sea ice like it,” wrote Peter Wadhams, an ocean physicist at the University of Cambridge who studies polar oceans and sea ice. “It’s just river ice, which is transparent because it has no salt in it.”When temperatures are well below freezing, the mouth of the crystal-clear river freezes over. The ice breaks into chunks that float out into the frigid ocean and then wash up on shore. There, the polished blocks accumulate and eventually melt into the sand. Their beauty has garnered increasing attention from locals and tourists. And after a photographer shot it and called it “jewelry ice” in 2015, more photographers have spilled in each winter since to capture the sparkling spectacle before it melts away. They have been posting their shots on social media.It’s the same type of hexagonal ice that snow crystals are made of, said Werner F. Kuhs, an ice chemist and physicist who in 2014 invented his own kind of ice, called Ice XVI, with totally different properties.“Usually lake or river ice is not that transparent, as numerous small air bubbles are formed inside the ice upon freezing,” Dr. Kuhs said. But occasionally, he added, “larger portions of the ice can grow bubble-free with the air accumulated in separated portions; in fact, some larger bubbles are seen in some of the enlarged ‘jewel’ crystals.”This may be the only spot to find this kind of river ice, but you can probably spot glacier ice that looks similar in southern Chilean fjords or Alaskan panhandle inlets, Dr. Wadhams said.The best time to see jewelry ice is in January or February. And the optimal time of day depends on what colors you want to see. As the sun rises and sets, the ice appears orange. During the day, it’s blue. Jewel ice can also appear sapphire, topaz or opal, depending on the sky. In Toyokoro, the town where the ice shows up, locals go to the beach and post frequent updates about the state of the ice on Toyokoro’s website. The last update, posted on Jan. 25, revealed that the temperature was minus 11 degrees Fahrenheit and the ice was covered in snow.
WASHINGTON — The powerful and poignant images and stories of refugees and international travelers caught at airports over the weekend by President Trump’s immigration order provoked sympathy and outrage around the world.Now think of those moving personal tales and pictures multiplied exponentially to encompass thousands of young immigrants living in the United States — many more culturally American than foreign — and being forcibly removed from their homes, schools and jobs.Some Republicans have contemplated those potentially searing depictions and worry they could provoke an outcry that would dwarf this weekend’s response to the new restrictions. It is a chief reason they are anxious about precipitately moving forward with any effort to undo the Obama administration’s program to grant relief to the so-called Dreamers: tens of thousands of younger unauthorized immigrants who participate in a program that allows them to remain in the United States, attend school, receive driver’s licenses and hold jobs without the threat of deportation.The weekend tumult was over a few hundred people who were being denied entry as refugees from violence across the Middle East, as well as over some legal residents who were being barred from returning. Any Trump administration effort to overturn the Obama administration’s Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals initiative and then deport participants could ensnare almost 800,000 people who are deeply enmeshed in communities, churches and campuses across the nation.“After this weekend, if they go after Dreamers, they are going to be going after the best-known, most popular and most beloved immigrants in America,” said Frank Sharry, executive director of America’s Voice, a pro-immigration group.“They are well known,” he said. “They go to our kids’ high schools; they attend universities. They are lawyers, doctors, chemists and construction workers, teachers’ aides and health care providers. They are leading extraordinary lives. They are American in all but paperwork.”What the new administration will ultimately do regarding the DACA program — as the Obama initiative is typically known — remains unknown. President Trump promised during the campaign that he would immediately end it, drawing applause and acclaim from his supporters, but he has substantially tempered his comments since being elected. He recently tried to assure the participating immigrants that they had little to fear from him.“I do have a big heart,” Mr. Trump told ABC News in an interview, suggesting he would reach a decision in the next month. Speaker Paul D. Ryan has made similar suggestions that there would be no abrupt change in status for immigrants who had been brought illegally to the United States at a young age. Mr. Trump also likes to emphasize that his administration will focus on deporting criminals.In some respects, the immigration executive order that sowed chaos over the weekend could be seen as a way for the new administration to appease impatient backers demanding quick action on border security while sparing the White House the even more politically difficult fight over tampering with or terminating the Obama administration program.Some Republican hard-liners and anti-immigration groups are already clamoring for Mr. Trump to follow through on his DACA commitment.Any failure to do so will probably provoke an uproar of its own from unhappy Trump supporters. Not to mention that the president can count leading opponents of the program among his closest advisers.To counter potential unrest, the White House can now point to its suspension of the refugee program and the consternation it has caused among Democrats and the news media — proof to this administration that the White House is doing something right. On Monday, the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, said the immigration executive order showed that Mr. Trump was “doing exactly what he told the American people he would do.”But some immigration proponents worry that the weekend’s legal and political clashes could move things in the other direction — toward at least some significant changes in DACA.That thinking is based on what is emerging as a Trump administration pattern. He and his top aides keep things stirred up to create an atmosphere of combat and confrontation with opponents and critics in a way that rallies their constituency and tests the limits of their policy ideas.Given that White House officials again on Monday expressed their sense that the new order had been carried out smoothly, they could take that as encouragement to plunge ahead with yet more action.And most Republicans in Congress seemed to back the president despite widespread outrage from Democrats and some stiff dissent from Republican senators.“I think most Americans support these common-sense measures,” Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, said in a typical statement.Most of the Republican criticism on Capitol Hill came from the Senate, where members have to answer to and be in sync with a broader constituency. In the House, the vast majority of the 240 Republicans represent districts carried by Mr. Trump in November. Just 23 House Republicans are from districts won by Hillary Clinton.Still, Republican loyalty could be tested by an aggressive move against the Dreamer program. Mr. Sharry, the immigration activist, predicted an outpouring of public resistance should the administration move ahead.“The first time a Dreamer gets put in a detention center and readied for a deportation bus, those crowds you see at the airports, you are going to see crowds at least as big surrounding the outside of detention centers,” he said. “What you are seeing at the airports this weekend will be multiplied by the hundreds and perhaps thousands.”And for some Republicans, those images would be a nightmare.
Rarely does an executive order announce a more straightforward and laudable purpose than the one President Trump signed on Friday: “Protecting the Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into the United States.” But the president’s directive is unlikely to significantly reduce the terrorist threat in the United States, which has been a minuscule part of the overall toll of violence since 2001.Many experts believe the order’s unintended consequences will make the threat worse.While the order requires the Department of Homeland Security to issue a report within 180 days providing detailed statistics on foreign nationals who commit acts of violence, terrorism researchers have already produced rich and revealing data. For instance, since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, no one has been killed in the United States in a terrorist attack by anyone who emigrated from or whose parents emigrated from Syria, Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen, the seven countries targeted in the order’s 120-day visa ban, according to Charles Kurzman, a sociology professor at the University of North Carolina.Of Muslim Americans involved in violent extremism of any kind — for instance, charged with plotting terrorism or supporting a terrorist group — only 23 percent had family backgrounds in those countries, said Mr. Kurzman, who just published the latest of his annual studies of Muslim Americans and terrorism.The larger point of experts is that jihadist attacks garner news attention that far outstrips their prevalence in the United States, and the president’s order appears to address not a rational calculation of risks but the visceral fears that terrorists set out to inflame.There was a random quality to the list of countries: It excluded Saudi Arabia and Egypt, where the founders of Al Qaeda and many other jihadist groups have originated. Also excluded are Pakistan and Afghanistan, where persistent extremism and decades of war have produced militants who have occasionally reached the United States. Notably, perhaps, the list avoided Muslim countries where Mr. Trump has major business ventures.Nor did the list include the European countries where disenfranchised Muslim communities have become hotbeds of militancy, leading to major attacks in Paris and Brussels in the name of the Islamic State. Because no visas are required for travel by most European citizens to the United States, and because of the volume of tourism and business, restricting travel from Europe would have been far more difficult and consequential than banning it from only the seven countries named.By Mr. Kurzman’s count, 123 people have been killed in the United States by Muslim terrorists since the 2001 attacks — out of a total of more than 230,000 killings, by gang members, drug dealers, angry spouses, white supremacists, psychopaths, drunks and people of every description. So the order addresses, at most, one-1,870th of the problem of lethal violence in America. If the toll of Sept. 11 is included, jihadists still account for just over 1 percent of killings.“My advice to the new administration would be to declare victory,” Mr. Kurzman said. For the average American, he added, “your odds of being victimized by a terrorist attack are infinitesimal.”But terrorists — the root of the word means “to cause to tremble” — do not operate in the realm of dry facts and statistics. Their purpose is to terrify, and they use random and spectacular violence to do it, with an invaluable assist from the saturation coverage on cable television and news websites that such outrages inevitably draw.To the rational calculations of Mr. Kurzman, one might simply reply with the list of American cities where horrific jihadist attacks have occurred in recent years: Boston; San Bernardino, Calif.; and Orlando, Fla. — place names that conjure up images of ghastly wounds, bullet-ridden bodies and frightened people running for cover. In Gallup polls, the number of Americans “very worried” or “somewhat worried” about such attacks generally hovers between 30 and 50 percent, with understandable spikes after new attacks.In the political realm, where emotions and symbols hold sway, Mr. Trump’s order may reassure some Americans that they are safer from terrorism, and more generally, from concerns that Muslim immigrants may bring an alien culture. (While ostensibly addressing terrorism, it also says that the United States should be protected against those with “hostile attitudes toward it and its founding principles” or those “who do not support the Constitution.”)The trouble with such reassurance, even if it is effective, is that it comes at a high cost, in the view of many experts on terrorism. That cost will be counted not just domestically but also abroad, where the United States relies on allies, including Muslim countries, for intelligence and other help against terrorism.“In my opinion, this is just a huge mistake in terms of counterterrorism cooperation,” said Daniel Benjamin, formerly the State Department’s top counterterrorism official and now a scholar at Dartmouth. “For the life of me, I don’t see why we would want to alienate the Iraqis when they are the ground force against ISIS.”At home as well, Mr. Benjamin said, the president’s order is likely to prove counterproductive. The jihadist threat in the United States has turned out to be largely homegrown, he said, and the order will encourage precisely the resentments and anxieties on the part of Muslims that fuel, in rare cases, support for the ideology of the Islamic State or Al Qaeda.“It sends an unmistakable message to the American Muslim community that they are facing discrimination and isolation,” Mr. Benjamin said. That, he said, will “feed the jihadist narrative” that the United States is at war with Islam, potentially encouraging a few more Muslims to plot violence.For an action aimed at terrorism, the order appeared to garner little or no support among experts and former officials of every political stripe with experience in the field. Jonathan Schanzer, the vice president for research at the conservative Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, said that if the temporary visa ban was used to review and improve immigration vetting procedures, it might be justified.But he added that he knew of no obvious problems with those procedures, and no specific plans to address such issues over the 120-day ban. “The order appears to be based mainly on a campaign promise,” he said.Mr. Schanzer said he was frustrated that during the Obama administration, there had been inadequate attention to the ultimate driver of refugee flows and jihadist terrorism in the United States and elsewhere. “We have several bloody, complex and interlocking conflicts in the Middle East,” he said. “It’s the job of the new administration to come up with policies that address those conflicts. Admittedly, that is not easy.”Much easier, clearly, is issuing an executive order with political appeal and a title that seems to smack of common sense. But as the Trump administration is finding out, such pronouncements from an American president have many consequences, not all of them intended, anticipated or desired.
GLEN ELDER, Kan. — Doug Palen, a fourth-generation grain farmer on Kansas’ wind-swept plains, is in the business of understanding the climate. Since 2012, he has choked through the harshest drought to hit the Great Plains in a century, punctuated by freakish snowstorms and suffocating gales of dust. His planting season starts earlier in the spring and pushes deeper into winter.To adapt, he has embraced an environmentally conscious way of farming that guards against soil erosion and conserves precious water. He can talk for hours about carbon sequestration — the trapping of global-warming-causing gases in plant life and in the soil — or the science of the beneficial microbes that enrich his land.In short, he is a climate change realist. Just don’t expect him to utter the words “climate change.”“If politicians want to exhaust themselves debating the climate, that’s their choice,” Mr. Palen said, walking through fields of freshly planted winter wheat. “I have a farm to run.”Here in north-central Kansas, America’s breadbasket and conservative heartland, the economic realities of agriculture make climate change a critical business issue. At the same time, politics and social pressure make frank discussion complicated. This is wheat country, and Donald J. Trump country, and though the weather is acting up, the conservative orthodoxy maintains that the science isn’t settled.So while climate change is part of daily conversation, it gets disguised as something else.“People are all talking about it, without talking about it,” said Miriam Horn, the author of a recent book on conservative Americans and the environment, “Rancher, Farmer, Fisherman.” “It’s become such a charged topic that there’s a navigation people do.”Mr. Palen — he plays his politics close to his vest but allows that he didn’t vote for Hillary Clinton — and others here in Glen Elder and across the state illustrate the delicate dance.Farmers like him focus on practical issues like erosion or dwindling aquifers. “When you don’t get the rainfall, it’s tough times,” he said.Regional politicians and business leaders speak of pursuing jobs that clean energy may create, rather than pressing the need to rein in carbon emissions. A science teacher at a community college — whose deeply religious students sometimes express doubts about the trustworthiness of science that contradicts biblical teachings — speaks to his class about the positives of scientific discovery (electricity) in order to ease into more contentious subjects (global warming).And an editor for a closely followed agriculture magazine, Successful Farming, recently made a controversial move, drawing a flurry of angry letters: He broke with longstanding policy to address climate change head-on.“Some readers thanked us,” the editor Gil Gullickson said. “But some wondered whether we’d been hijacked by avid environmentalists.”The climate has not always been such a partisan issue. Richard Nixon, a Republican president, set up the Environmental Protection Agency and signed the Clean Air Act. Ronald Reagan ushered in the Montreal Protocol, the first global treaty to protect the global atmosphere.Much of that consensus has broken down, in no small part because of a well-financed push by fossil-fuel interests, together with influential Republican allies, to attack well-established research on topics like global warming and push back on environmental regulation. That push began in earnest during the George W. Bush administration as attempts to undercut the Clean Air Act, and since then, the divide has widened.President Trump has famously said he believes that climate change is a hoax invented by the Chinese, and his administration has purged nearly all mention of climate-change programs from the White House and State Department websites. It has also ordered a freeze on federal grant spending at the E.P.A. and other government agencies.The fact that the climate-change discourse has also become dominated by liberals has alienated some conservatives, including Mr. Palen. Many people here in particular resent how, in the polarized political landscape of recent years, conservative Americans have been painted as hostile to the environment.The Trump campaign successfully seized on that schism, painting Democrats as overzealous environmentalists with little sympathy for the economic realities or social mores of rural America. “Many of our federal environmental laws are being used to oppress farmers instead of actually helping the environment,” Mr. Trump quipped in a widely circulated Q. and A. on FarmFutures.com. “Farmers care more for the environment than the radical environmentalists.”Still, “it would be a huge mistake to think people voting for Trump were voting against the environment,” Ms. Horn said. If Trump follows an aggressive anti-environment agenda, she said, “there will be a big backlash in the heartland.”In many ways, Mr. Palen sees himself as the ultimate conservationist. His great-grandfather, the son of an immigrant from Luxembourg, was the first to farm in this stretch of north-central Kansas.Mr. Palen grew up on the farm, took it over in his 20s, and looked to make his mark. In college, he learned of a farming technique called “no till,” which is intended to more closely mimic the natural prairie ecosystem, and was intrigued by its promise to protect his family fields from Kansas’ relentless winds and sudden downpours. The idea behind no-till farming, he now explains to anyone who will listen, is that plowing the soil destroys its natural structure, causing it to lose its precious moisture and nutrients. That makes it vulnerable to erosion.Mr. Palen’s fields aren’t tilled. There are no neat furrows. The residue of plants from previous plantings still carpets the earth, offering a layer of protection, and his fields are never bare even after harvest. He alternates wheat and other crops with what he describes as a cocktail of grasses and leafy plants, like grain sorghum, sunflowers and alfalfa, a gesture toward the diversity of the wild prairie. “They say there’s more organisms in a handful of soil than people on the planet,” Mr. Palen said, making his way through a field between plantings. He stooped his tall frame down, dug up a clump of earth, and rolled it between his fingers. He is soft-spoken, yet when he talks of the earth, his excitement is obvious.“See how it’s firm and holds together?” he said. “See how it doesn’t break down into goo?”No-till farming addresses a dire problem facing American farmers: Almost 1.7 billion tons of topsoil are blown or washed off croplands a year, according to the Department of Agriculture, resulting in billions of dollars in losses for farmers. Keeping the soil healthy and covered also reduces evaporation by 80 percent, helping farmers conserve water, the department estimates.Farmers like Mr. Palen also happen to be protecting a vast and valuable carbon sink, making him an ally to climate-change campaigners. The soil traps far more carbon in its depths than all plant and animal life on the earth’s surface, scientists estimate. A 2013 study estimated that no-till and other restorative farming methods could achieve up to 15 percent of the total carbon reduction needed to stabilize the climate.Despite his conservationist streak, Mr. Palen has no affinity for environmentalists. He feels vilified, he says, for his continued use of chemical herbicides and pesticides. (Some organic farmers control weeds by tilling the soil, which Mr. Palen argues causes more ecological harm.) And he remains suspicious of any expansion of government regulations that ignore realities of rural America.“We want to be left alone,” Mr. Palen said. He singled out the Clean Water Rule, an E.P.A. regulation designed to protect streams and other waterways, as regulatory overreach. Washington types wanted to dictate what he could do with every creek, every puddle, on his farm, he said, putting impossible burdens on farmers.And most of them had probably never spent any time on a farm, he said. “We’re the ones working to protect the environment. We’re the ones whose lives are tied to the earth.”Carl Priesendorf, a science teacher at Metropolitan Community College in Kansas City, Mo., has learned strategies to talk about climate change without completely alienating climate skeptics. He teaches geology and meteorology. Those subjects would usually be innocuous, but not here.“I’d show the CO2 data — how we’d had the hottest year on record,” Mr. Priesendorf said. “But I get students who basically say what I’m teaching is nonsense. My car’s been keyed. I get notes from students saying they’re praying for my soul.” One such note that he shared reads, “Know that God’s love surpasses knowledge.”Since a particularly contentious debate in class — a student threw a book bag at him, he said — Mr. Priesendorf has taken a step back to focus on the everyday positives of science. “I ask: ‘Do you like the light bulb? Do you like electricity?’ That’s science,” he said. “Then I ease into more contentious topics, like climate change.”That is an uphill battle. A 2013 survey found that just 8 percent of farmers in the Midwest believed that “climate change is occurring, and it is caused mostly by human activities.” An earlier Pew Research Center poll found that only 48 percent of people in the Midwest agree with the statement that there is “solid evidence that the average temperature on earth has been getting warmer,” a number below other regions in the country.And conservatives have been pushing back against classroom standards adopted by the state of Kansas that treat evolution and climate change as scientific concepts. Last year, the United States Supreme Court declined to review a nonprofit group’s lawsuit that claimed that those standards promote atheism.But now, under a Trump administration, Mr. Priesendorf felt science itself was under fire. “If even your government starts telling your country that scientists are lying to you, it’ll be even tougher for science teachers,” he said. “I’m going to focus on keeping my students’ minds open to the possibility that the science is correct.”Annie Kuether, a Democrat and clean-energy advocate in the Republican-controlled Statehouse and a member of the State Utilities Committee, has for years pushed for more renewable energy. One obstacle, though, is that the committee’s chairman does not believe in climate change.A St. Louis native who landed in Topeka as a young bride four decades ago, Ms. Kuether is used to working alongside adversaries. Her county voted for Mr. Trump, along with all but two counties in the state.She has sat through committee meetings where climate skeptics, including the discredited scientist Wei-Hock Soon, blasted the science behind global warming. “Carbon Dioxide, CO2, is merely a bit player in climate change,” reads one slide Mr. Soon presented in 2013. “Rising CO2 is largely beneficial to plant and human life.”“I remember being horrified,” Ms. Kuether said.Still, over the years, she has forged powerful business alliances by focusing, in her arguments, on jobs and the economy. She has also found increasing support from farmers and landowners who count on wind turbines and solar panels they host on their property for income.“Gradually, from a political standpoint, you can build a constituency that benefits from this industry,” said Mark Lawlor, one ally and an executive at Clean Line Energy Partners, which is building a 780-mile  transmission line to deliver 4,000 megawatts of wind power from western Kansas to Missouri, Illinois and other neighboring states.“Just like grain, cattle, airplanes, wind’s another valuable resource Kansas can export,” he said, referring to Kansas’ sizable agricultural industry, as well as the Cessna Aircraft Company, which is based in Wichita, Kan. “Kansas has a lot of pragmatic folks here, and we recognize benefits.”Kansas’ dwindling water sources have been another issue that Ms. Kuether has found strikes a nerve among voters here, whatever their beliefs on climate change. That has helped to build some support for measures to save the state’s shrinking aquifers, a lifeline for communities in western Kansas, though not yet any decisive action.In fact, her focus on the practical is a big part of what has kept getting her elected, she said, in a State Legislature where she is outnumbered by Republican lawmakers, two to one. “I’ve always felt that families have always been concerned about water — whether they’re Democratic, Republican or independent,” she said.Mr. Gullickson of Successful Farming, who usually writes about topics like pigweed, gypsum and runoff, has started to push the envelope on debates over climate change. An 11-year veteran of the magazine, where he is the crops technology editor, Mr. Gullickson said he had long been on the fence about climate change. But that began changing five years ago, when he attended a workshop where a University of Kentucky professor gave a convincing argument, backed by data.“I started looking at the evidence, at the data and what farmers were doing,” he said. “And it’s clear: The weather has become more extreme these days. And I thought, ‘I’ve never heard of any successful business publication that stayed in business by withholding information.’”So for the first time in the storied magazine’s 115-year-old history, a cover story squarely addressed the science of climate change. The October 2014 piece was published under the headline, “@#$*% Weather!”“I know what you’re thinking: Climate change is just some figment of Al Gore’s imagination adopted by liberal tree-huggers who want to tank the U.S. economy,” Mr. Gullickson wrote.“Still, think back over some rough weather you’ve endured in recent years and ask yourself these questions,” he continued. “Are springs getting wetter? Are droughts increasing in severity? Are rainstorms increasing in intensity?” The clear answer, he said: “Yes.”Mr. Gullickson said that he and his editor had held lengthy discussions leading up to the article’s publication. His editor in chief, Dave Kurns, was supportive, he said, but also warned that the piece could generate backlash.Mr. Kurns spoke candidly over concerns of a backlash in an editor’s note that led the issue. When he became the magazine’s editor two years earlier, he said, he had been warned, “Never use the words ‘climate change.’”“I was told: ‘Readers hate that phrase. Just talk about the weather,’” he wrote.The industry publication, which has a circulation of 390,000, was influenced by some of the biggest names in agriculture taking a stand on the issue, Mr. Gullickson said. The agricultural giant Cargill has started to lobby members of Congress and urged farmers to take climate change seriously, saying inaction would be detrimental to the United States economy.The response to the magazine’s take on the issues has been split.“When you start quoting ‘climate scientists’ and the United Nations,” wrote in one reader, Bill Clinger, a farmer based in Harpster, Ohio, “you are as nutty as Al Gore.” Measures to control emissions, he said, “are just seductive names for socialist programs intended to micromanage people and businesses.”Mr. Gullickson said some readers thanked him. “Finally, a farming magazine comes to terms with what is going on with the weather,” wrote Paul Jereczek of Dodge, Wis.Reached by phone, Mr. Jereczek, who runs a dairy farm, expressed exasperation at people’s inability to speak openly. “The phrase has become so politicized, it’s just hard to talk about,” he said. “But we talk about everything else. Even round here, protecting soil is such a hot topic right now. But we talk about the soil, saving fertilizer, that sort of thing.”Mark Salvo, vice president at the wildlife conservation group Defenders of Wildlife, might be a walking, talking stereotype of the kind of environmentalist who so frustrates Mr. Palen. An Oregonian now based in Washington, he spent 15 years in the American West fighting to conserve fish and wildlife on public lands.But Mr. Salvo thinks he knows an unlikely — and highly sympathetic — character to bring Kansans and others together around climate change: the lesser prairie-chicken.Known for its shock of yellow hair and bright orange cheeks, the lesser prairie-chicken once roamed the Great Plains. Today, though, the grouse is under threat — its populations reduced to isolated pockets in western Kansas, Colorado and the Texas-New Mexico border as its habitat succumbs to climate-induced drought, farming, drilling and other human activity.The group has been petitioning the Fish and Wildlife Service to relist the lesser prairie-chicken as a threatened species under the Endangered Species Act. The bird found itself taken off the list after a lawsuit in 2014 backed by the oil and gas industry, which argues that any protective measures would mean added costs for energy developers.Mr. Salvo has found that to gain allies it doesn’t always help to start with the role climate change plays in harming the bird’s habitat. Instead, his movement has tried to find common ground, highlighting the historical heritage of the lesser prairie-chicken. In the “Little House on the Prairie” novels, Laura Ingalls Wilder wrote about eating prairie-chicken mush.Mr. Salvo also stresses how grouse-friendly practices can be good for farming, too, backing a federal program that provides financial aid to private landowners who adopt those practices. Leaving corn stubble standing after harvest gives the birds food and places to hide, for example, while also helping farmers protect the soil.“Sometimes, to gain allies, it helps to focus on issues of common concern, to support local economic development as well as species conservation,” he said. “It helps everybody come to the table.”Last week, Mr. Palen, the farmer, was again talking weather — if not climate change — at a conference of no-till farmers  in Salina, Kan. Sessions included “Using Your Water Efficiently,” “Making Weather Work for You in 2017” and “Building Healthy Soil With Mob Grazing,” a practice that helps to fertilize the land.And yes, Mr. Palen says, he is on board with saving the lesser prairie-chicken. “I often think of ways I can protect their habitat,” he said. “I enjoy wildlife.”
Sal Oliva, a hotel worker and Uber courier from Staten Island, is ecstatic about President Trump’s executive order. So are Michael Bower, an owner of a home alarm company in Seattle, and Lynn and Don Broesch, retirees from suburban Milwaukee.Mr. Trump’s new immigration policy may be setting off protests around the country and raising eyebrows and objections among allies abroad. But at home, a large portion of the electorate is behind the president. Mr. Trump’s supporters say that the promise of tougher immigration policies is one of the main reasons they voted for him. Friday’s order, along with an earlier one for building a wall, shows that he is serious, they say.“I was like, ‘Oh, my God.’ I was so happy,” said Mr. Oliva, 32. He is gay and said he was deeply affected by the shooting at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Fla., by an American of Afghan descent. “That one really got to me. That could have been me.”Mr. Trump has tapped into a deep anxiety that is a relatively recent feature of modern American politics: terrorism from abroad.His detractors argue that his actions are not borne out by facts. Since Sept. 11, 2001, no one has been killed in the United States by an immigrant — or the son or daughter of an immigrant — from any of the seven countries in the 90-day visa ban. A vast majority of killings over all happen at the hands of native-born Americans. Some recent attacks in which the Islamic State was invoked were carried out by Muslims born in the United States.But emotions are powerful forces, and much of what people know comes from smartphone and tablet screens showing an endless stream of news of terrorist attacks that feel immediate and threatening even if they are far away.“I don’t begrudge my grandma who never met a Muslim in her life, but all she sees on TV are Muslims blowing things up,” said Mr. Bower, 35, who grew up in rural Idaho. “It is not irrational that people are worried.”He emphasized that Mr. Trump’s order was “only temporary.”“Let’s just take a breather,” Mr. Bower said. “Take a little time out. Let’s get the smart people in here and formulate a plan.”Each person sees the policy through the lens of personal experience. For Mr. Bower, it evokes his stepsister, whose husband works in Lower Manhattan and was there on Sept. 11. He was on one of the last trains out of the city that morning and, even now, Mr. Bower said, she is scared every day her husband goes to work.“I guess I would probably say I adopted my sister’s view,” he said. “I see how it affects her. I don’t think it’s bad to re-examine what we are doing.”Mr. Bower, a college-educated Republican, said he voted for Mr. Trump largely to avoid voting for Hillary Clinton. He said he is watching what the president does and would not support him unconditionally. He said he was politically lonely in blue Seattle, but wanted to give Mr. Trump the benefit of the doubt. The immigration order did nothing to dampen his enthusiasm.For Louis Murray, 52, a life insurance salesman in Boston, Mr. Trump’s order left him “ecstatic.” He recalled the Tsarnaev brothers, who were from a Muslim-majority part of the former Soviet Union, entered the United States on tourist visas and then applied for asylum.“They said they were in fear of their lives,” he said, “but yet they went back there for terrorist training. And they repaid our kindness of refugee status with a triple murder and a pressure-cooker bomb put on the Boston Marathon finish line. I can remember our whole city and region being on lockdown, and it was sheer terror.”“People say, ‘Never forget’ and ‘Boston strong,’” he added, “and the only one that I see being Boston strong is President Trump.”For all the outrage the order has stirred, including among some Republicans, two recent polls found that a plurality of Americans support some type of suspension of immigration. A Quinnipiac University poll in January found that, by a ratio of 48 to 42 percent, voters supported “suspending immigration from ‘terror prone’ regions, even if it means turning away refugees from those regions.” And a December Politico/Harvard T. H. Chan School of Public Health poll found that 50 percent of Americans favored “banning future immigration from regions where there are active terrorist groups.”Opinion on the subject breaks sharply along partisan lines. A New York Times/CBS poll in July found that two in three Trump supporters favored a temporary ban on allowing Muslims to enter the country, while 87 percent of Clinton voters opposed it.Events are fluid, and after the administration’s retreat on Sunday from barring holders of green cards from re-entering the country, some experts suggested that Mr. Trump might be calculating his actions to provoke liberals.“Mr. Trump goes out of his way to offend nearly everything the left values,” said Philip E. Tetlock, a political psychologist at the University of Pennsylvania and the author of “Superforecasting.” “He even takes glee in it.”It also may serve his purposes, if an angry left riles up the right, heightening the sense of battle on both sides — and endearing him to his supporters even more.“The liberal media spent all their time and effort bashing him, laughing at him, saying he wasn’t fit,” said Don Broesch, a retired accountant from Germantown, Wis., who said it seemed as if every single story about Mr. Trump during the campaign was negative. “When there’s an underdog out there, and they are totally criticizing him, all it does is drum up support for him. It makes me like him even more. I love it when they bash him because it tells me he’s doing the right thing.”Mr. Broesch and his wife, Lynn, strongly support the immigration order. Mrs. Broesch said she had been wary of Muslims since Sept. 11, but had a new surge of worry after the knife attack by a Somali-American last year in a mall in Minnesota, where her son and his family live.Mr. Trump’s chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, has been sharply critical of the news media as elitist and out of touch and has stirred the pot of class divide. It is hard to say what part of the resentment his supporters feel has arisen from their own direct experience and what part has seeped in from the political air. Often it seems to come from both.Mr. Oliva contended that the media portrays Muslim immigrants only positively.“Every story about a Muslim immigrant is that they are as American as apple pie,” he said. “But I’m sorry, Islam is no friend of L.G.B.T. people. When Islam meets gay people in Somalia or wherever, they get thrown off the roof. And you expect them to be different when they move here? You can’t expect people to absorb our values.”Mr. Oliva, who works on the Upper East Side of Manhattan — and recently had a picture of Mr. Trump’s face tattooed on his arm — said people in Manhattan did not understand his love for Mr. Trump because their problems were different from his.Last month, he said, he was waiting for the M101 bus with an Uber package when he struck up a conversation with a well-dressed woman. Watching a snarl of traffic, she blamed Mr. Trump for it. Mr. Oliva told her he loved Mr. Trump and could not wait for him to take action against immigrants in the country illegally, who he said had hurt his weekend income as a house painter.“These people in Manhattan, they don’t know what’s going on in the outer boroughs,” he said. “These immigrants, they don’t come to 86th Street; they come to Port Richmond Avenue on Staten Island.” He added that Manhattanites are “not going to be affected. We are the ones that feel it.”
OTTAWA — As President Trump’s executive order on immigration stranded people around the world and provoked condemnation, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada took to social media to restate the country’s open-door policy.“To those fleeing persecution, terror & war, Canadians will welcome you, regardless of your faith,” Mr. Trudeau wrote on Twitter on Saturday afternoon. “Diversity is our strength.”Another post showed him in photograph with a child, apparently a Syrian refugee who had just arrived, with the caption “#WelcomeToCanada.” The post was shared at least 224,000 times on Twitter.Mr. Trudeau’s immediate priority after he took office in late 2015 was to drastically accelerate the entry of refugees from Syria. From that point to early January, the latest available figures, his administration has admitted 39,671 refugees into a country with a population of about 36 million.Cameron Ahmad, Mr. Trudeau’s press secretary, declined to comment on whether the Twitter posts were an indication that Canada may welcome some refugees who now found themselves shut out of the United States.“The prime minister is looking forward to discussing the success of Canada’s immigration and refugee policies with the president when they next speak,” Mr. Ahmad said.Any move by Canada to quickly offer asylum to refugees frozen out of the United States would certainly pose logistical problems. And it seems unlikely that the government would put such refugees ahead of a long line of claimants who have already been told they will be allowed into Canada.Mr. Trump’s executive order is not only at odds with Mr. Trudeau’s policies, but it also does not reflect the general sentiment in Canada, where the Syrian refugee program enjoys widespread support. About 16,000 Syrian refugees who have arrived since November have been wholly or partly sponsored by individual Canadians or groups that have come together to raise sponsorship funds. During Mr. Trudeau’s current cross-country tour, the chief complaint about immigration has been that refugees are not arriving as quickly as would-be sponsors would like.As a result, Mr. Trudeau’s social media posts may have been primarily aimed at a Canadian audience. He has been taken to task by some Canadians on social media and during his road show for not strongly attacking Mr. Trump’s past remarks on women and his policies, both proposed or already implemented, that conflict with Mr. Trudeau’s political agenda.But Mr. Trudeau, like his predecessors’ dealings with other presidents before him, has been careful not to criticize Mr. Trump or his administration. He offers instead only pat answers about the importance of Canada’s relationship to the United States and his government’s desire to have a constructive relationship with the American administration. While attacking the president might be popular among Mr. Trudeau’s supporters, the government believes it could have harmful and unproductive consequences.Two members of Mr. Trudeau’s cabinet came to Canada as refugees and were born in the predominately Muslim countries now targeted in Mr. Trump’s executive order. They include Ahmed Hussen, the immigration minister, who was born in Somalia.The immediate effect of the executive order within Canada was muted. Major Canadian airlines are not allowing people holding citizenship from the seven countries covered by the presidential action to board flights to the United States. But WestJet, a major carrier with several flights to America, said that by Saturday afternoon it had turned away only one passenger.It is unknown, however, how many people tried to enter the United States by automobile, only to be turned away, or who simply abandoned such travel plans.
Like a man on a flying trapeze, K.T. Jones has leapt from one medical study to another during his 15-year struggle with cancer, and he has no doubt that the experimental treatments he has received have saved his life.Mr. Jones, 45, has an aggressive type of Hodgkin’s lymphoma that resists the usual therapies. At the start of his most recent clinical trial, his life expectancy was measured in months. That was more than three years ago. He received a drug that helped his immune system fight cancer — a type of immunotherapy, the hottest area in cancer research and treatment.“I’ve been over 12 months now with no treatment at all,” he said. “I walk half-marathons.”Mr. Jones is one of many patients who have benefited from lifesaving advances in immunotherapy. But he’s an outlier: He is African-American. As money pours into immunotherapy research and promising results multiply, patients getting the new treatments in studies have been overwhelmingly white. Minority participation in most clinical trials is low, often out of proportion with the groups’ numbers in the general population and their cancer rates. Many researchers acknowledge the imbalance, and say they are trying to correct it.Two major studies of immunotherapy last year starkly illustrate the problem. The drug being tested was nivolumab, a type of checkpoint inhibitor, one of the most promising drug classes for cancer. In both studies, patients taking it lived significantly longer than those given chemotherapy.In the first study, of 582 patients with lung cancer, 92 percent were white. Three percent were black, 3 percent were Asian and 3 percent were listed as “other.” In the second study, of 821 people with kidney cancer, 88 percent were white, 9 percent Asian and just 1 percent black.According to 2015 census figures, whites make up 77 percent of the United States population, blacks 13.3 percent and Asians 5.6 percent.A 1993 law requires that all medical research conducted or paid for by the National Institutes of Health include enough minorities and women to determine whether they respond to treatment differently than other groups. Minority enrollment in its studies was about 28 percent in clinical research and 40 percent in Phase III clinical trials in 2015, the N.I.H. said.But the N.I.H. paid for only about 6 percent of all clinical trials in the United States in 2014, and those it does not support do not have to adhere to its rules. The lung and kidney studies of nivolumab, for instance, were paid for by the drug’s maker, Bristol-Myers Squibb. Researchers say such studies, geared toward getting a drug approved for new uses, are often done quickly, and minority patients may be left out because it can take longer to find and enroll them.One obstacle, researchers say, is that people in minority groups tend to have lower incomes and less education, and therefore less awareness of medical studies and how to find them. Many live in areas that do not have easy access to a major cancer center. Moreover, minority patients with cancer are more likely to have other, poorly controlled chronic diseases like diabetes that may make them ineligible for studies, according to Dr. Julie R. Brahmer, from the Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center.Even if they do qualify and want to enroll, financial hurdles can be daunting. Studies may involve frequent trips to the hospital, requiring time off work and expenses for travel, parking and child care. Some doctors simply assume that lower-income, minority patients could not manage it.“One of the biggest barriers is doctors not asking patients to join clinical trials because they assume they would not be trial candidates,” said Dr. Elise D. Cook, from the MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. But many, she said, “would participate if they were asked.”Trials can offer huge advantages, like new treatments that may otherwise be unavailable. Expensive drugs and tests are usually free. The overall care is often better than routine treatment, because patients see doctors and nurses more frequently and have more tests. Though success is not guaranteed, a clinical trial can be a lifeline.“Clinical trials are the most advanced treatment, the most cutting-edge therapies we have,” said Dina G. Lansey, the assistant director for diversity and inclusion in clinical research at the Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center. “They should be available to everybody.”At Queens Hospital’s Cancer Center in New York, researchers are trying to reach disadvantaged patients by bringing clinical trials to them.For one black patient there this fall, chemotherapy had stopped working and his colon cancer was spreading.“It’s something you don’t want to hear,” said the patient, a slight, sad-faced man of 61 with a soft voice and a strong Jamaican accent. He asked to be identified only as Mr. M., to protect his privacy.“We all have to go,” he said.Linda Bulone, a research nurse manager, was hoping to buy him some time with a study that would test for mutations that might make his cancer vulnerable to certain new drugs, which he could then receive.Her effort was part of an unusual collaboration between the Queens center, where 92 percent of patients are from minority groups, and Memorial  Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, one of the nation’s most renowned cancer hospitals.Opened in 2002 by Dr. M. Margaret Kemeny, a surgical oncologist and professor of surgery at Mount Sinai School of Medicine, the Queens center is part of NYC Health & Hospitals/Queens, a public hospital that turns no one away. Many patients there are uninsured; 85 percent of those with cancer qualify for emergency Medicaid, Dr. Kemeny said. The cancer center operates a food pantry, and many patients need it.Dr. Kemeny wanted cancer patients to have access to studies, and lured Ms. Bulone away from a tony suburban hospital to start a research center in 2004.“You can’t do good medicine for cancer without a research program,” Dr. Kemeny said. Most of her patients in Queens have never heard of clinical trials.Mr. M., for instance, knew nothing about genetics, mutations or Memorial Sloan Kettering. Sensing that he, like many of her patients, had trouble reading, Ms. Bulone took most of an hour to read the consent form for the study aloud and explain it. He signed.“Once you’re in the study, you’re a patient of mine forever,” Ms. Bulone told him. As she does with every study patient, she gave him her cellphone number and said he could call her any time night or day. He hugged her on the way out.“I don’t convince them of anything,” she said. “I educate them. We have to protect them, inform them, make sure they’re getting a true impression of the study. Not every clinical trial is for every person.”The center has patients in about 35 trials, she said, adding that drug companies looking to enroll minorities sometimes seek out the Queens center because it’s such a melting pot. Though she is white, she has had no trouble signing up patients from other races, she said.“You have to really care,” she said. “You have to put yourself into it.”She said it was important to work with patients who are illiterate or have little education, factors that some may think would impede their ability to follow directions, and make them poor candidates for clinical trials. She considers that discriminatory.“We want to give them the best treatment we can,” she said. “But there’s also the emotional part. That’s all you have left when the medicine runs out.”Ms. Bulone uses a telephone translating service to explain studies to patients who do not speak English, and the hospital or drug companies pay $2,000 to $6,000 to have consent forms translated.To find patients who might be helped but know nothing of trials, she recently began asking another city hospital for its list of patients to be discussed at its “tumor board” meetings, where doctors evaluate difficult cases.If any patients meet the criteria for a study, she contacts them. Recently, she found Sung Yoo, a Korean man with gastric cancer who qualified for a promising study of a checkpoint inhibitor. It took 16 days to get the consent form translated, but he waited and eagerly signed up.“People want to live,” Ms. Bulone said. “They just do.”Clinical trials can reveal things useful to a whole ethnic or racial group. For instance, a drug for kidney cancer, sunitinib, has proved more likely to cause skin problems in Asians than in whites. But how blacks compare is not known, because not enough have been included in studies, said Dr. Robert J. Motzer, an oncologist at Sloan Kettering.But Dr. Otis W. Brawley, chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society, said, “When we look at race, it matters sociopolitically far more than biologically.” He said lower enrollment of minorities in clinical trials was part of a larger problem of unequal care that contributes to higher death rates from treatable cancers in some groups.“I sometimes cynically say, ‘The drug certainly does not work in blacks when blacks don’t get prescribed the drug,’” Dr. Brawley said.He added: “When there’s a rumor that a new drug is hot, if it is being offered, upper-class Americans with good insurance will fly to the medical center, stay in a hotel, get on the trial.”The notorious Tuskeegee study, in which black men with syphilis were deliberately left untreated during the mid-20th century, is frequently cited as a reason that blacks avoid studies. But once the safeguards to prevent abuse are explained, researchers said, minorities are just as willing as whites to participate. Most people are wary of studies with control groups given placebos, but cancer studies do not use placebos: The control group generally gets the best available standard care.One way to increase minority enrollment that some researchers favor is conducting studies that focus on specific racial or ethnic groups. Few such studies are done, though Dr. Brawley warned that requiring certain enrollment levels for minorities could backfire, tempting research teams to pressure patients to sign up.Another solution, some suggest, would be for medical journals to refuse to publish studies unless they include appropriate numbers of women and minorities.Dr. Edward W. Campion, executive editor of The New England Journal of Medicine, wrote in an email that his publication expects reports of trials to show racial distributions,“but there are no set requirements.”A complicating factor, he said, is that many major studies are international, including countries with different racial makeups.He added: “We expect it to be made clear that one has to be careful about generalizing from a trial done mainly in one racial group.”There were 23 people in the small study that probably saved Mr. Jones’s life. He was one of two blacks — a higher proportion than in most larger studies.Mr. Jones said that he was unaware of any racial divide in research, and that his stubborn personality and determination to live drove him to find studies, entirely on his own.“I made a commitment to a lifetime with my wife,” he said. “A lifetime wasn’t going to be a year or two.”His quest began when his lymphoma returned after several rounds of treatment.“My doctor sat me down and said, ‘The disease seems to have progressed past everything we have,’” Mr. Jones said. The doctor then promised he would make sure to keep Mr. Jones comfortable.“You mean tie up loose ends?” Mr. Jones asked. When the doctor said yes, Mr. Jones said, “I gave him a hug, and said: ‘This means my journey with you is done. I’m going to find something, somewhere. I’ll keep you in the loop.’”He scoured ClinicalTrials.gov, which lists available studies for many diseases. A drug name he saw there led him to an online video describing a study at MD Anderson Cancer Center for patients like him. Mr. Jones lives in Delaware and thought MD stood for Maryland, a few hours’ drive away. He was stunned to find out the hospital was in Houston. He and his wife had to stop paying their mortgage to afford plane tickets. Eventually, they lost their house. But the treatment worked — for a while.When he relapsed again, he could not afford to keep traveling to MD Anderson. His doctor there helped him transfer his care to Sloan Kettering in New York.Again, experimental treatments helped, but temporarily. Then he hit the jackpot. In 2013, he entered a trial of the checkpoint inhibitor nivolumab. He was treated for two years. The study became a landmark, with an 87 percent response rate among patients like Mr. Jones, who had burned through every other option.“This was just hitting it out of the park,” said Dr. Alexander M. Lesokhin, his oncologist at Sloan Kettering.Mr. Jones was treated for two years. His tumors shrank, and he has been off treatment for a year. Doctors are not sure whether the cancer is gone or being kept at bay by his immune system. But he is feeling well and has embarked on a new career that he loves, photographing jazz musicians.As for his illness, he said: “I didn’t have a specific person to guide me. Everything fell into place for me because I pushed for it. I’m telling everyone else: ‘Don’t give up. You have to self-advocate.’”
LIME RIDGE, Wis. — It was late afternoon and her bar was close to empty, so Lisa Buttonow poured herself a cherry-chocolate beer and broke one of her rules: Never reveal in a public place how she feels about President Trump.“You’ve got to be so careful around here,” explained Ms. Buttonow, owner of the Branding Iron Roadhouse in Lime Ridge, population 165. “You never know who’s a Democrat and who’s a Republican.” (As if to emphasize the point, she insisted that her own leanings were not for publication.)In this county, there are almost equal numbers of both. Sauk County, known for its small farms, sweeping bluffs and award-winning cheese making, is one of the most closely divided counties in the United States. Out of more than 31,000 votes cast here in the November election, Mr. Trump edged out Hillary Clinton by only 109 votes.Here is a place that defies easy stereotypes of red and blue America, a mostly rural county in central Wisconsin that split nearly down the middle between Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump.Residents say they will freely discuss the Packers, the fickle weather, the best kind of feed for Black Angus cattle. But especially since the election, there has been a tacit agreement not to talk about presidential politics, except among small, trusted groups of like-minded friends.“Everybody has their opinions, of course,” said Wendy Crary, the clerk and treasurer for the village of Spring Green. “But they keep them to themselves.”Some people said that even in a place with a nearly 50-50 mix of Republicans and Democrats, they still managed to live in their own bubbles.“I try to hang around with the people that I’m used to hanging around with, people that I know share my beliefs,” said Larry Mundth, 61, a dairy and beef farmer in Reedsburg who is a Democrat. “I do know people who are positive, optimistic and Democratic. Those are the people I surround myself with, more often than not.”Mr. Mundth said it was conservatives who had isolated themselves from everyone else. “There are some very strong bubbles in our area, people who are basically one-issue voters,” he said. “They do not look at the whole picture.”Republicans described a similar silence on political talk. John Starling, 55, a farmer in Lime Ridge who is a Republican, said that even mentioning whom you voted for could be needlessly provocative. “It’s so polarizing,” he said. “You don’t torment people to their face.”Al Exner, chairman of the Sauk County Republicans, sat in a diner in Reedsburg on a recent morning, recounting the times when arguments about politics could go on “tooth and nail” for hours, even among the best of friends, and nobody would walk away offended.Mr. Exner, 80, regularly gets together over eggs and hash browns with old friends who have met for years. There are a few Democrats in the group. No one is allowed to discuss the new president or his policies.“I’ve learned to keep my mouth shut,” Mr. Exner said. “There were days when we had our differences, but you could talk about it. Those days of disagreeing and being able to continue a conversation just don’t exist anymore.”“It’s the Democrats’ fault,” he added.Both sides said the animosity in Wisconsin began to fester years ago, when Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican, was elected and began an aggressive campaign to scale back the power of public sector labor unions. He succeeded, and was the target of widespread protests and a statewide recall campaign that ultimately failed.Then in November, many rural, blue-collar voters who had previously favored Barack Obama turned their support to Mr. Trump, helping him win the state by almost 23,000 votes.To Wisconsinites who knew that their state had not voted for a Republican in a presidential election since 1984, it was a jolt.“I look at these farmers and think, how can you vote Republican?” said Diane Kirt, 64, a retired teacher in Reedsburg who favored Mrs. Clinton. She said she did not “advertise” her choice in the November election, and tended to associate with people who were like-minded.“You don’t go out of your way to make enemies,” she said. “I spend most of my time with educators.”In interviews around Sauk County, Democrats and Republicans said they now found it nearly impossible to debate the issues. Democrats asked: How can they talk about politics with Republicans when the Republicans don’t even believe that Mr. Obama was a United States citizen? (Mr. Exner said he believed Mr. Obama’s birth certificate was a fake, but he does not talk about it unprompted.)Republicans countered that the Democrats do not consider Mr. Trump to be a legitimate president, because he lost the popular vote and because they believe he received a boost from the Russians, who interfered with the election by hacking the Democratic National Committee.The residual tension over the election has played out in other ways. One man said he had been told that some Republicans who know of his political affiliation would not shop at his business. Another woman said she had stopped shopping at a neighbor’s store in town after seeing a Trump sign in his front yard.Wessie and John Dietz, a married couple in Reedsburg who voted for Mrs. Clinton, mostly keep political talk to a small group of Democrats who meet every two weeks at their cabinetry shop after they have closed down for the day.“This is very much a 50-50 community,” Mr. Dietz said. “It is different here now than it ever was. The issues have become very intense. I think the biggest problem is the lack of people studying the issues.”During the campaign, they learned that their next-door neighbors, a couple they have been friends with for 35 years, were supporting Mr. Trump.“From that time on, I decided that until they stopped watching Fox News all the time, there was no use talking to them about politics,” Mrs. Dietz said.They are still close. But the friendship has chilled a bit since that conversation, Mrs. Dietz said.“There’s a different feeling now,” she said. “In my mind, how can they vote for a sexual predator? These are churchgoing people.”Carolina Lipscomb, 32, works in a store in Reedsburg that sells flags and other patriotic items. Her husband is in the military and stationed in Germany; she voted for Mr. Trump, partly based on her belief that Mr. Obama did not really support military families.She and her co-workers can freely discuss politics in the store, but not outside it.“All of us here are conservative, so we can talk here,” she said. “But you can’t get into it with anyone unless you know how they voted. If you’re talking to a liberal, they would just lash out at you, saying how stupid and ignorant you are. That’s why I stopped.”She and her best friend argued about refugee policy once during the campaign — a conversation that ended with Ms. Lipscomb’s friend accusing her of being heartless. “I didn’t have fights like this in 2012,” she said.They have not talked about Mr. Trump since the election.
CAIRO — The Germans criticized it. The British voiced their discomfort. The French, the Canadians and even some Republican senators in Washington stood in open opposition.But in Cairo and Riyadh, in the heart of the Muslim world, President Trump’s decision to bar millions of refugees and citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from the United States was met with a conspicuous silence.King Salman of Saudi Arabia, home of Islam’s holiest sites, spoke to Mr. Trump by telephone on Sunday but made no public comment. President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt, whose capital, Cairo, is a traditional seat of Islamic scholarship, said nothing.Even the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, a group of 57 nations that considers itself the collective voice of the Muslim world, kept quiet.Leaders in Iran and Iraq, two of the countries targeted by Mr. Trump’s order, issued furious denunciations on Sunday and vowed to take retaliatory measures. But the silence in the capitals of Muslim-majority countries unaffected by the order reflected a lack of solidarity and an enduring uncertainty about the direction that Mr. Trump’s foreign policy might take in some of the world’s most volatile corners.Will he move the American Embassy in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem? Designate Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood as a terrorist organization? Fall in line with Russia in dealing with the conflict in Syria?“Trump has promised to do all kinds of things, but it’s not clear what he will move on immediately,” said Nathan J. Brown, a Middle East expert at George Washington University. “Nobody seems to know. It’s not even clear if Trump knows.”The lack of unity stems from an old problem: Muslim leaders pay lip service to the “ummah,” or global community of Muslims, but are more often driven by narrow national interests — even when faced with grave actions seen as an affront to their own people.“They don’t have a strong basis of legitimacy at home,” said Rami G. Khouri, director of the Issam Fares Institute at the American University of Beirut. “They are delicately perched between the anger of their own people and the anger they might generate from the American president.”Still, Mr. Trump’s executive order — which froze all refugee arrivals in the United States and barred the entry of citizens of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen for 90 days — has sent a whirlwind of confusion, anxiety and fury across the Middle East and Africa. Refugees have been turned back at airports, families separated indefinitely and long-planned trips upended.“I thought in America, there were institutions and democracy,” said Fuad Sharef, 51, an Iraqi Kurd bound for New York who was turned away from the Cairo airport with his wife and three children on Saturday morning. “This looks like a decision from a dictator. It’s like Saddam Hussein.”On Sunday, Trump administration officials backtracked on one aspect of the order, saying green-card holders would be allowed to return to the United States. In a Facebook post on Sunday evening, Mr. Trump insisted that his policy was not a “Muslim ban” and accused the news media of inaccurate reporting. Hours earlier, he had characterized the conflict with the Islamic State in starkly sectarian terms, asserting on Twitter: “Christians in the Middle East have been executed in large numbers. We cannot allow this horror to continue!”In fact, a majority of the Islamic State’s victims have been Muslims, many of them shot, burned or beheaded. Among the Muslims who managed to escape Islamic State territory are the refugees Mr. Trump has now excluded.In a phone conversation with Mr. Trump on Saturday, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany cited the 1951 Refugee Convention, which calls on signatories to take in people fleeing war, according to Steffen Seibert, Ms. Merkel’s spokesman. Yet in much of the Middle East, Mr. Trump is less likely to get such a scolding.He has drawn close to Mr. Sisi of Egypt, whom he called a “fantastic guy,” and is considering designating the Muslim Brotherhood, Mr. Sisi’s sworn enemy, a terrorist organization. In a call last week, the two leaders discussed a possible visit to the White House by Mr. Sisi, whose administration faces accusations of human rights abuses — an unthinkable prospect during the Obama administration.In his order on Friday, whose stated aim is to keep extremists out of the United States, Mr. Trump invoked the Sept. 11 attacks three times. Yet Saudi Arabia, which was home to 15 of the 19 attackers, was not included on the list of countries whose citizens would be shut out. That reflects the deep economic and security ties between the United States and Saudi Arabia. Mr. Trump also has a personal financial link: In August 2015, just as his campaign was gathering steam, the Trump Organization registered eight companies in Saudi Arabia that were linked to a hotel development in the city of Jidda.Pakistan, another country whose citizens have carried out attacks in the United States, also ducked Mr. Trump’s list. Although Mr. Trump had a chummy phone call with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif shortly after the election in November, Pakistanis are nervously waiting to see if Mr. Trump will pull American troops from neighboring Afghanistan.“There’s a lot of concern,” said Zahid Hussain, a political analyst in Islamabad, Pakistan. “For now, they want to keep quiet and see how things go.”On Monday, King Abdullah II of Jordan is scheduled to meet in Washington with members of the Trump administration and Congress, the first Arab leader to do so since the executive order was issued.Muslim solidarity once existed. As recently as the early 2000s, most Muslim-majority countries agreed on issues like the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and sanctions against Iraq. Now, after several regional wars and a surge in sectarian strife, that consensus has been shattered.Multinational organizations that represent Muslims are viewed as toothless entities. The head of the Organization for Islamic Cooperation, which has headquarters in Saudi Arabia, was forced to quit last fall after he made a joke at the expense of Mr. Sisi of Egypt.In the early days of Mr. Trump’s campaign, the Islamic scholars at Al Azhar, the ancient seat of Islamic learning in Cairo, spoke out against the “smear campaigns being launched against Muslims in America.” But the scholars have yet to weigh in on Mr. Trump’s executive order, and even if they do, few observers expect them to stray from official Egyptian government policy.For many citizens of those countries, the docility of their leaders is frustrating. Samer S. Shehata, of the Doha Institute for Graduate Studies in Qatar, said that many of his students had already canceled their plans to study in the United States. “I don’t think anyone is under any illusion that if you are a Muslim or an Arab, you’re going to be treated different in this Trump presidency,” he said.Mr. Khouri, of the American University of Beirut, said the disconnect between rulers and civilians in some countries spoke to the underlying anger that fueled the Arab Spring uprisings in 2011. “Even when this American move is insulting Muslims and Islam, they do nothing about it,” he said. “That’s going to create more anger, and more pressure, in the Arab world. It’s terrible.”
At first, Hillsdale College seems to resemble dozens of other small liberal arts schools with rich histories. There are statues of Washington and Lincoln, Jefferson and Churchill, and a monument to students who fought for the Union — a point of pride at a college that was founded by abolitionists, visited by the crusading former slave Frederick Douglass and open to black students and women from its founding in 1844.Cross the quad on what is known as the Liberty Walk, though, and you encounter something different: statues of Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan. If it isn’t ready to add a bronzed Donald J. Trump to this pantheon, this is one college, at least, where his presidency is viewed with more hope than dread. In a letter to prospective donors, Hillsdale’s president, Larry P. Arnn, said that 2017 promises a “beginning to restore limited government.”Hillsdale, a private college of 1,400 students in southern Michigan that describes itself as “nonsectarian Christian” and dedicated to “civil and religious liberty,” is scarcely known in many circles. But among erudite conservatives — think progeny of William F. Buckley Jr. — it is considered a hidden gem.What they admire is the college’s concentration on the Western philosophical and literary canon (sometimes disparaged as the Great Books of dead white men) and its reverent treatment of the American founding documents as the political culmination of that tradition — a tradition that scholars at Hillsdale say has been desecrated by a century of governmental overreach, including the New Deal and Obamacare.It is no coincidence that Justice Clarence Thomas, an advocate of strict “originalist” interpretation of the Constitution, delivered the commencement address last spring, likening Hillsdale to a “shining city on a hill” for its devotion to “liberty as an antecedent of government, not a benefit from government.”Conservatives are also entranced by Hillsdale’s decision to forego any federal or state funds so as to be “unfettered” by government mandates. In 1984, in Grove City College v. Bell, the Supreme Court ruled that even Pell grants for needy students or G.I. Bill money for veterans subjects a college to federal regulations, and so Hillsdale students are not allowed to accept such funds (most receive institutional grants). As a result, the college does not follow Title IX guidelines on sex discrimination and the handling of sexual assault cases and it has refused to engage in the otherwise required reporting on student race and ethnicity, let alone develop an affirmative action plan. Not surprisingly, the school’s “race blind” admissions policy results in an overwhelmingly white student body.George F. Will, the conservative columnist, praised both the college’s independence and its curriculum, saying that “by stressing the Great Books and Western civilization, Hillsdale has become a niche success.” He added: “I think it’s greatly regrettable that it’s only a niche.”The election of Mr. Trump, claiming a conservative mantle but with an erratic record, has forced questions about the true meaning of conservatism into the spotlight. Under the leadership of Dr. Arnn, a prominent conservative intellectual, Hillsdale has been working not only to provide an example in the classroom but also to press its stance nationally on what it calls the threats to constitutional liberty — ideas that feed into conservative Republican politics.The most popular of Hillsdale’s free online courses, Constitution 101 — 10 weeks of lectures by faculty members, with recommended readings — has been taken by more than 800,000, according to the college, and has offered intellectual ballast to Tea Party activists. “By educating millions of Americans on our founding principles of liberty,” the college writes of its goals, “America can begin to turn around and restore lost liberty.”In Washington, Hillsdale plays an active role in an ecosystem of conservative thought and policy. It joined with the Heritage Foundation to run a fellowship program for congressional staff members. Its D.C. outpost, the Allan P. Kirby Jr. Center for Constitutional Studies and Citizenship, runs a lecture series and serves as a base for Hillsdale undergraduates who are interning at conservative think tanks or publications. Aiming to nurture its vision of classical education, the college has also helped establish K-12 charter schools across the country.•Dr. Arnn arrived at Hillsdale in 2000 as a healer on a campus rocked by scandal (his predecessor had resigned after publicity over an alleged affair and a suicide). Previously president of the Claremont Institute, a conservative think tank in California, Dr. Arnn seems to personify Hillsdale, teaching the ancient Greeks and Shakespeare and publishing books on Churchill and the Constitution. An ebullient man with a short beard who speaks with faint traces of his native Arkansas, he has been known to swoop down on hapless victims in the cafeteria and pose the core question of the Classics: “What is The Good?”In his office, beneath a portrait of Churchill, he did not gush over Mr. Trump but stressed what he sees as the overriding imperative. “If he attacks the regulatory state,” Dr. Arnn said, “that will be for the good.”Mr. Trump’s rise has posed the same quandary on this campus as it has among conservatives beyond it. Dr. Arnn’s decision last year to endorse him raised eyebrows on a divided campus and in wider circles (National Review had famously declared “Never Trump”). Mr. Trump had even considered Dr. Arnn for secretary of education, but he was ultimately passed over.“People said to me, ‘You love Abraham Lincoln and Winston Churchill, how can you support Trump?’ I said, ‘I didn’t know they were in the race.’ ”After election night, the campus did not see weeping, nor wide rejoicing. A survey of students by the school paper found that just 49 percent had voted for Mr. Trump; others voted for third-party candidates or did not vote; 4 percent voted for Hillary Clinton. By comparison, 90 percent of students voted for Mitt Romney in 2012. But perhaps only at Hillsdale would a student cite Aristotle’s emphasis on “the practicality of prudence” in an op-ed urging classmates to get behind the new president.Hillsdale attracts students from across the country (only a third are from Michigan), and they don’t wind up there by accident. Many said their parents received Hillsdale’s newsletter, Imprimis, featuring speeches by conservative thinkers. Some said they had heard Dr. Arnn on one of his regular appearances on Hugh Hewitt’s syndicated radio program. They were also attracted by the moderate cost. Hillsdale is well financed with private donations, and college officials said that 95 percent of students this year received grants averaging $17,206, to offset the $35,722 for tuition, room and board.In a commonly expressed sentiment, Kaitlyn Johns, a senior economics major with a music minor, said she came to Hillsdale “because I felt like I would actually be challenged here.” Tara Ang, a junior, chose Hillsdale because of the classics emphasis. A political science major “with a Latin minor for fun,” she said she particularly enjoyed her internship in Washington with the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank, and was now helping to form an undergraduate chapter of the Federalist Society.In this isolated location, students like to form clubs, on everything from politics to cigar smoking to highland dancing. One that does not exist at Hillsdale College is an L.G.B.T.Q. organization. Openly gay or lesbian students are a rarity, and The Princeton Review consistently ranks Hillsdale among the 20 least L.G.B.T.Q.-friendly campuses.A public furor erupted in 2015 when the chaplain sent out a campuswide email calling for prayer against the “evil” and “ugly” possibility that the Supreme Court would legalize same-sex marriage. College leaders admonished him for his tenor, though not the message: “The tone and language of the email did not properly represent our commitment to thoughtful inquiry and civil discussion,” the provost, David M. Whalen, said in a statement.Founded by Free Will Baptists, the college wears its religion lightly, without requiring a pledge of faith like some evangelical institutions. The student body includes a significant minority of Roman Catholics; students studying the Reformation in their core curriculum joke about re-enacting its debates over lunch. Classes are small and personal. “The entire freshman class is reading the same stuff at the same time, and the class spills over into the lunchroom,” said Paul A. Rahe, a history professor.The soul of Hillsdale is its core curriculum, which largely occupies students for their first two years. It includes more than a dozen mandatory survey courses on topics like the Western heritage (with readings from Hammurabi to Hobbes) and American heritage (the Mayflower Compact to inaugural addresses by Franklin D. Roosevelt and Reagan). Students also must study core principles of biology, chemistry and physics and take the trademark class on the American Constitution.Beyond admiring the stress on traditional rigor and methods, conservatives more widely venerate the Great Books, approached in a certain way. They laud the reading of original texts, gleaning eternal ideas of right and wrong rather than dwelling on the often less noble historical contexts. Hence, the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution are exalted for recognizing the natural rights of man and role of government as protector of those rights. The Constitution’s enshrinement of slavery, in this view, was a horrid expediency to win adoption in the South — a malignancy that ultimately had to be excised in blood rather than an indelible original sin.“In principle, studying Great Books is not inherently conservative,” said Molly Worthen, an assistant professor of history at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, who laments that this ground has been largely ceded by liberals.“There is a tradition that grew out of ancient Greece and Rome that is shared by modern progressives,” she said. “But the study of the Great Books has become entwined with a certain set of methodological assumptions and political or ideological goals.”In a telling moment during my campus visit, a student tour guide brought a prospective student and her parents to the rare-book room in the library. “I’d learned in class about Tocqueville’s idea of the danger posed to liberty by overvaluing equality, and how that is relevant today,” the guide said. “This was really brought home to me, seeing an original translation of Tocqueville here in the Heritage Room.”The guide could have learned that point in the class that Dr. Rahe taught last fall, a deep dive into Montesquieu, Rousseau and Tocqueville with the suggestive title drawn from one of the professor’s books: “Soft Despotism, Democracy’s Drift.”Still, in several classes that I observed, the teachers encouraged spirited exchanges and broached topics far beyond conservative dogma. Dr. Whalen, for example, an English professor as well as provost, ended his course “Great Books in Continental Literature” with a look at Samuel Beckett’s “Endgame.” “What happens if there is no meaning there, but you have an absurd need to express meaning?” he asked of Beckett’s vision. One student drew a comparison to the music of John Cage, which he had studied in another class.The course on the Constitution includes intense study of the Federalist papers and the later statements of Progressives like John Dewey, Woodrow Wilson and F.D.R. Hillsdale teachings describe the Constitution as a timeless document whose principles have been compromised by the creep of welfare and regulation.The more mainstream view is offered by Joseph J. Ellis, author of several books on the founders, who he says intended that the Constitution be “a living document.” “The conservative narrative,” he told me, “defies the evolution of the United States into a major industrial superpower that requires federal institutions to regulate corporations and manage a much larger set of interests.”If one subject captures the juxtaposition of Hillsdale’s pathbreaking origins with its present-day conservatism, it is race. From the official catalog: “The college values the merit of each unique individual, rather than succumbing to the dehumanizing, discriminatory trend of so-called ‘social justice’ and ‘multicultural diversity.’ ”In 2013, Dr. Arnn was castigated by Michigan legislators when, during testimony against the Common Core, he made a remark about officials who questioned Hillsdale’s racial record. Years before, he said scornfully, Michigan officials had come to the campus with clipboards, trying to count faces and prove, he said, that the college “didn’t have enough dark ones.” He later issued a barbed apology: “No offense was intended by the use of that term except to the offending bureaucrats.”To me, Dr. Arnn said: “I think it is an urgent thing for the college to help those who are disadvantaged.” He cited the charter school initiative as a response that fits Hillsdale’s values. Hillsdale has received private grants to foster K-12 schools, funded with public money, that introduce children to the ancient Greeks and constitutional principles and require the study of Latin. Hillsdale serves as a consultant — without payment, again avoiding government funds — providing local organizers a curriculum and teacher training. So far it is aiding 16 schools — three of them, one in Georgia and two in Texas, serving mainly minority populations, Dr. Arnn said.“We hope that a lot of those students will come here,” he said. In the meantime, Hillsdale defiantly claims an exemplary record of opposition to racial discrimination. As if to drive home the point, the college is adding one more bronze to its Liberty Walk this spring: a statue of Frederick Douglass.
SAN DIEGO — What his blanket is to Linus Van Pelt, Torrey Pines Golf Course is to Tiger Woods. The North and South layouts have been quilted courses of calm for Woods, who has won seven PGA Tour titles, a United States Open and a junior championship on them.Woods’s comfort level with Torrey Pines factored into his decision to make the Farmers Insurance Open, rather than a European Tour stop next week in the Middle East, his first full-field event after a 17-month, injury-induced layoff. Only once in 15 previous starts in this event as a professional had Woods missed the cut when he played two rounds. But his familiarity with the place could not save him from the unknowns in his latest comeback.With an even-par 72 on the North course, Woods improved by four shots on his Thursday score on the South, but his 36-hole total of four over par left him on the wrong side of the cut. In his misery, Woods had plenty of illustrious company: The world No. 1, Jason Day; the reigning PGA Tour player of the year, Dustin Johnson; and the 2016 United States Ryder Cup members Rickie Fowler and Jimmy Walker. The leader at the halfway point is Justin Rose, at eight under.As Woods proved during his low-key return to competition in a limited-field event in the Bahamas in December, making birdies is not a problem. He had 24 in four rounds there. In his two rounds this week, Woods had five birdies, one more than Billy Horschel, who made the even-par cut on the number. Mental mistakes and a few bad swings were Woods’s downfall, contributing to the seven bogeys and one double bogey on his scorecard.In the first round, Woods got to one under with back-to-back birdies to begin his second nine, but he then had to lean on his play from inside 100 yards to save himself from a score higher than 79.In the second round, Woods’s course management, usually so polished, showed some tarnish. On the par-3 third, his 12th hole, Woods chose the wrong club for the 245-yard tee shot into the wind. His effort using his 3-iron landed several yards short of the green, and he walked off with a bogey. On the drivable par-4 seventh, which was playing downwind, he chose to lay up and ended up with a disappointing par.“I hit it much better today, which was nice,” said Woods, who hit 10 of 14 fairways. He opened with a birdie at the par-5 10th, but despite a few close calls on nice rolls, he failed to record another birdie until his 14th hole, another par-5.Woods acknowledged that he needed to cut down on the “dumb mistakes” and said: “Playing tournament golf is a little bit different than playing with your buddies at home in a cart. I need to get more rounds under my belt, more playing time, and that’s what I’m trying to do.”Woods, 41, will play in next week’s European Tour event in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, and after a week off, he will make consecutive starts in the Genesis Open at Riviera Country Club in Los Angeles and the Honda Classic in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla.In his practice rounds at his home in Florida, Woods did not face cold weather and a biting wind that required playing in four layers. He did not have to endure stop-and-start rounds that took upward of five hours. And he did not have to hit out of thick rough. In facing all those challenges and more at Torrey Pines, Woods learned much about the state of his game that could prove valuable moving forward.“He’s got to take things in stride,” said Horschel, who was in the group with Woods two years ago when Woods withdrew during the first round of this event after his back tightened up. “If anyone else came back after a year and a half, everyone would be patient and give him time.”The added challenge for Woods, a 79-time winner on the tour, is that he is not just playing against fields full of old rivals and young and hungry up-and-comers — he is also competing against the player he was in his prime.“The thing is that you can’t hold Tiger to the standards that he always talked about in his early 20s and 30s, when he talked about having his C-game,” Horschel said, adding, “He’s a changed man, and he’s a different golfer.”Hunter Mahan does not know what it is like to be sidelined from competitive golf for more than 500 days. But he has missed a lot of weekends. Since last year’s Masters, Mahan had made only two cuts in 16 starts. With a second-round 70 on the North course, Mahan (three under) made his first cut of this wraparound season. In describing his struggles, he supplied a glimpse of what Woods must be facing.“You can practice all you want at home,” Mahan said. “When you get out here, all of the sudden, things move a lot faster. Your body’s moving faster, your clubs might not be moving as fast as you want them to. It’s amazing the difference, and there’s nothing that can replicate it.”Mahan added, “You just have to get out here, keep working on it and keep your emotions in check.”It also helps to be patient, which Woods acknowledged is not his strength.“I’m not that kind of guy,” he said.He smiled as he spoke, which was perhaps the best sign of all.
TEHRAN — Families, businesspeople, athletes and tourists from seven countries in the Middle East and Africa found their travel plans — and even their futures — in a state of suspension on Friday after President Trump signed an executive order temporarily barring thousands from obtaining visas to travel to the United States.The order is expected to freeze almost all travel to the United States by citizens from the Muslim-majority countries of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen for at least 90 days. Three of those countries are considered sponsors of terrorism (Iran, Sudan and Syria), and three are designated countries of concern (Libya, Somalia and Yemen).Passport-holders from those countries, who have American visas but are outside the United States, will not be permitted to return.“We only want to admit those who will support our country and love deeply our people,” Mr. Trump said on Friday before signing the order at the Pentagon. “We will never forget the lessons of 9/11, nor the heroes who lost their lives at the Pentagon.”(The 19 hijackers implicated in the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack came from Egypt, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. None of those countries will be subject to what Mr. Trump described as “new vetting measures.”)During the 90-day period, the Trump administration will assess if the foreign governments on the list are providing enough information about citizens seeking visas to enable the United States to assess whether they pose a terrorism risk. If the governments do not comply, they will be given 60 days to do so; failing that, their citizens will be barred from entering the United States.Government reaction to the order has been cautious. But there is little doubt that the demand for information will be a challenge for Iran, which sends far more people to the United States each year, around 35,000, than any other country on the list.While Iran willingly allows its citizens to travel to the United States, it is ideologically opposed to sharing information with Washington. But if it does not, many of its citizens will be cut off from visiting relatives who are among the estimated one million Iranian-Americans living in America.The visa ban will provide an early indication of where relations between Tehran and the Trump administration are headed, one analyst said.“Trump will regard the Iranian reaction as a test,” said Farshad Ghorbanpour, who is close to the government of President Hassan Rouhani. “If Iran doesn’t comply, they won’t do so either on other issues. We will see in 30 days.”Another analyst doubted the government would comply with the order.“We are not obliged to give information about our citizens to the Trump administration,” said Hamidreza Taraghi, considered a hard-liner. “Such a move would be unjustifiable.”In the United States, Americans of Iranian descent expressed shock and dismay at news of Mr. Trump’s impending policy change, and were particularly concerned about their relatives and friends in Iran.Trita Parsi, president of the National Iranian American Council, a Washington-based advocacy group, said many Iranian citizens with valid green cards and American visas were distraught. Those outside the United States are fretting they will not be allowed in, and those already in the country fear they will not be able to leave, even temporarily, because they will be barred from returning.“There is a sense of bewilderment, as well as a sense of injustice,” over why Iran was even included on the list of targeted countries, Mr. Parsi said. No Iranian has been accused of an attack on the American homeland. By contrast, he said, the Sept. 11 attackers included citizens from countries which are not on the list — and “the United States has produced more ISIS fighters than Iran has.”Iran’s most popular actress, Taraneh Alidoosti, announced on Twitter that she was canceling her trip to the Academy Awards ceremony in Los Angeles on Feb. 26, after reports that Mr. Trump was about to sign the sweeping executive order.Ms. Alidoosti plays a leading role in ‘‘The Salesman,’’ directed by the acclaimed Iranian director Asghar Farhadi and nominated for best foreign film. She almost certainly could have obtained a visa as a ‘‘culturally unique artist,’’ but said she no longer felt like making the trip.“This is not about me or the Academy Awards, it’s about having a discussion about this decision,” Ms. Alidoosti said. “This is such a bizarre ban, it is uprooting people’s lives in ways not imaginable.”In 2015, according to the Department of Homeland Security, a total of 35,266 nonimmigrant visas were granted to Iranians to enter the United States, compared with 21,381 for Iraq; 16,010 for Syria; 5,549 for Yemen; 4,792 for Sudan; 2,879 for Libya and 359 for Somalia.As there is no American embassy or consulate in Iran, Iranians must travel to Ankara, Turkey, Dushanbe in Tajikistan or to Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, to apply for a visa. The State Department says that more than 40 percent of all applications are rejected. There are numerous agencies in Iran and other countries that mediate and assist Iranians seeking appointments.“Let’s hope this is fake news,” said Ali Reza Falahati, who runs a mediation agency in Ankara. “People are constantly calling to ask us if their appointments are canceled. They paid visa fees, $160, and booked tickets and hotels. I just hope this will be all right.”One woman in Tehran, a 28-year-old restaurant manager, nearly broke down in tears when hearing news of the ban.She said she had been waiting for a green card and that she and her husband had been planning for years to move to Orlando, Fla., where her mother, father and brother live. They even postponed having a baby, she said, and now regretted having waited for so long.The effects of the measure were felt in Africa, too.Many people in Mogadishu, Somalia, used the same word to describe Mr. Trump. “He’s a dabaal,” said Guled Hassan, a Somali university student. “Dabaal” is the Somali word for a fool.On Thursday, Mr. Hussan and his friends, who were hanging out in a park near Mogadishu’s crumbling seashore, slurping mango shakes, were paying extra close attention to the news streaming into their phones. Just about all of them had heard that Mr. Trump might ban visas for Somalis.Just about all of them said they wanted to go to the United States, and they mostly agreed the visa ban was “stupid” and "unfair.”No Somalis doubt that their country has a terrorism problem. Just the day before, more than a dozen people were killed in a double bombing at a Mogadishu hotel. The Shabab, a Somali militant group, took credit for the attack and remains one of the world’s most bloodthirsty and dangerous terrorist organizations, having killed thousands across several countries in eastern Africa.But the consensus was that Mr. Trump was punishing all Somalis for the potential misdeeds of a few. “He won the election by saying he would chase away black people,” said Bilal Guled Mohamed, a college student.Another young man, Abdul Karim Hilowle, asked, “What’s the difference between Somalis already in the U.S. and those who want to go now?”
WASHINGTON — A year ago, Judge Neil M. Gorsuch was midway down a ski slope when his cellphone rang. Justice Antonin Scalia, he was told, had died.“I immediately lost what breath I had left,” Judge Gorsuch said in a speech two months later. “And I am not embarrassed to admit that I couldn’t see the rest of the way down the mountain for the tears.”President Trump, in nominating Judge Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, has chosen a judge who not only admires the justice he would replace but also in many ways resembles him. He shares Justice Scalia’s legal philosophy, talent for vivid writing and love of the outdoors.Mr. Trump’s selection of Judge Gorsuch was nonetheless a bit of a surprise, coming from someone who had campaigned as a Washington outsider. Judge Gorsuch has deep roots in the city and the establishment Mr. Trump often criticized.His mother was a high-level official in the Reagan administration. He spent part of his childhood in Washington and practiced law here for a decade, at a prominent law firm and in the Justice Department. And, like all of the current justices, he is a product of the Ivy League, having attended college at Columbia and law school at Harvard.Judge Gorsuch, 49 — who was appointed to the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit, in Denver, by President George W. Bush — is an originalist, meaning he tries to interpret the Constitution consistently with the understanding of those who drafted and adopted it. This approach leads him to generally but not uniformly conservative results.“Ours is the job of interpreting the Constitution,” he wrote in a concurrence last year. “And that document isn’t some inkblot on which litigants may project their hopes and dreams.”While he has not written extensively on several issues of importance to many conservatives, including gun control and gay rights, Judge Gorsuch has taken strong stands in favor of religious freedom, earning him admiration from the right.In two prominent cases, both of which reached the Supreme Court, he sided with employers who had religious objections to providing some forms of contraception coverage to their female workers.He voted in favor of Hobby Lobby Stores, a family-owned company that objected to regulations under the Affordable Care Act requiring many employers to provide free contraception coverage. Similarly, he dissented from a decision not to rehear a ruling requiring the Little Sisters of the Poor, an order of nuns, to comply with an aspect of the regulations.The Supreme Court ruled in favor of Hobby Lobby in 2014 and vacated the decision concerning the Little Sisters of the Poor in 2016.Like Justice Scalia, Judge Gorsuch takes a broad view of the Fourth Amendment, which bars unreasonable government searches and seizures.Judge Gorsuch was born and spent his early years in Colorado, and he returned there when he became a judge more than a decade ago. Michael W. McConnell, who served with Judge Gorsuch on the appeals court and is now a law professor at Stanford, said his former colleague’s Colorado background would add something distinctive to the Supreme Court.“He’s a Westerner,” Professor McConnell said. “There are so many cases that have to do with the West, and I also think the cultural sensibilities of the West are different. He’s an outdoorsman, and the Supreme Court needs a little bit more geographical diversity.”In Colorado, Judge Gorsuch is known for his involvement with the outdoors and the local legal community. He lives in unincorporated Boulder County, in a mountain-view community on a property with several horses. He has raised chickens and goats with his teenage daughters, Emma and Belinda, and his wife, Louise, an avid equestrian. He is a black diamond skier and fisherman and hosts regular picnics for his former law clerks with another 10th Circuit judge, Timothy M. Tymkovich.Judge Gorsuch has not hesitated to take stands that critics say have a partisan edge. He has criticized liberals for turning to the courts rather than legislatures to achieve their policy goals, and has called for limiting the power of federal regulators.Nan Aron, the president of the Alliance for Justice, a liberal group, said Judge Gorsuch’s stance on federal regulation was “extremely problematic” and “even more radical than Scalia.”“Not requiring courts to defer to agency expertise when an act of Congress is ambiguous,” she said, “will make it much harder for federal agencies to effectively address a wide variety of critical matters, including labor rights, consumer and financial protections, and environmental law.”In a 2005 essay in National Review, written before he became a judge, he criticized liberals for preferring litigation to the political process.“American liberals have become addicted to the courtroom, relying on judges and lawyers rather than elected leaders and the ballot box, as the primary means of effecting their social agenda on everything from gay marriage to assisted suicide to the use of vouchers for private-school education,” he wrote. “This overweening addiction to the courtroom as the place to debate social policy is bad for the country and bad for the judiciary.”Like Justice Scalia, Judge Gorsuch is a lively and accessible writer. Consider the first paragraph of a 2011 libel decision, which dispensed with the throat-clearing and jargon that characterizes many judicial opinions.“Can you win damages in a defamation suit for being called a member of the Aryan Brotherhood prison gang on cable television when, as it happens, you have merely conspired with the Brotherhood in a criminal enterprise?” Judge Gorsuch wrote. “The answer is no. While the statement may cause you a world of trouble, while it may not be precisely true, it is substantially true. And that is enough to call an end to this litigation as a matter of law.”Judge Gorsuch’s writing differs from Justice Scalia’s in one major way: His tone is consistently courteous and mild, while some of Justice Scalia’s dissents were caustic and wounding.If Judge Gorsuch is confirmed, the court will return to a familiar dynamic, with Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, a moderate conservative, holding the decisive vote in many closely divided cases.Judge Gorsuch was born in Denver, but he moved to Washington as a teenager when his mother, Anne M. Gorsuch, joined the administration of President Ronald Reagan as the first woman to lead the Environmental Protection Agency. Ms. Gorsuch, known after her remarriage as Anne Burford, resigned under fire from Congress after 22 months.After law school, he also attended Oxford University in England as a Marshall Scholar, graduating with a doctorate in legal philosophy.He served as a law clerk for a year to Judge David B. Sentelle, a conservative member of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.After the appeals court clerkship, Mr. Gorsuch served as a law clerk to Justice Byron R. White, then a retired member of the Supreme Court. As is the court’s custom, Justice White shared his clerk with an active member of the court, Justice Kennedy. (When Judge Gorsuch joined the Denver appeals court, Justice Kennedy administered the oath of office.)Mr. Gorsuch then practiced law for a decade at Kellogg, Huber, Hansen, Todd, Evans & Figel, a Washington law firm, before serving in the Justice Department from 2005 to 2006.He is the author of “The Future of Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia,” published in 2006 by Princeton University Press. The book argued that laws banning those practices should be retained.In a 2002 article reflecting on Justice White’s death, Mr. Gorsuch criticized the Senate’s handling of judicial confirmations. “Some of the most impressive judicial nominees are grossly mistreated,” he said, mentioning two candidates for the federal appeals court in Washington who he said were “widely considered to be among the finest lawyers of their generation.”One was John G. Roberts Jr., who went on to become chief justice of the United States. The other was Judge Merrick B. Garland, who was confirmed to the appeals court in 1997 after a long delay, but whose nomination to Justice Scalia’s seat last year was blocked by Senate Republicans.If he is confirmed, Judge Gorsuch will become the 113th justice, taking a seat that has been held not only by Justice Scalia but also by Justice Robert H. Jackson, perhaps the finest writer to have served on the court. “The towering judges that have served in this particular seat of the Supreme Court,” Judge Gorsuch said in his remarks at the White House on Tuesday night, “are much in my mind at this moment.”But Judge Gorsuch seemed to take special pleasure in remembering the justice who had first hired him as a law clerk, a Westerner whose accomplishments were not limited to the law. “I began my legal career working for Byron White,” he said, “the last Coloradan to serve on the Supreme Court — and the only justice to lead the N.F.L. in rushing.”
Humans are sometimes said to occupy a “pecking order,” but of course the term actually refers to chickens and other poultry. Mild pecking is normal behavior in the flock, employed by dominant birds (or “despots”) as a way to remind subordinates of their lower social position.But the practice can turn gruesome when thousands of birds are packed wing to wing. Then, some bottom-of-the-order birds are pecked to death — and eaten. As poultry and egg farms increased in size in the 1920s and 1930s, feather-pecking and cannibalism, known in the trade as “pick out,” became serious threats.In 1939, Joseph Haas, founder of the National Band and Tag Company, devised a fashionable method to deal with cooped-up cannibals: mini sunglasses equipped with red celluloid lenses on a hinged aluminum frame. Poultry farmers were informed that having their chickens see the world through rose-tinted cheaters would “make a sissy of your toughest birds.”Until relatively recently, the party line among scientists was that cannibalism occurred in only a few species in the wild, like black widow spiders and praying mantises. Cannibalism, researchers felt, was an aberrant behavior resulting from a lack of alternative forms of nutrition or the stresses associated with captive conditions.But over the decades, evidence has been gathering for an alternative view. Cannibalism, it turns out, occurs in hundreds of species, perhaps thousands. The behavior varies in frequency between major animal groups — nonexistent in some, common in others. It varies from species to species and even within the same species, depending on local environmental conditions.As important, the behavior serves a variety of functions, depending on the cannibal, and some of these have nothing to do with stress or captive conditions. There are even instances in which an individual being cannibalized receives a benefit.Before his death in a boating accident in 2000, Gary Polis, an ecologist at the University of California, Davis, came up with a list of cannibalism-related rules for invertebrates. Immature animals are consumed more often than adults, he found, and many species do not recognize individuals of their own kind (especially eggs and immature stages) as anything other than food.He noted that cannibalism was more common in females than in males, and that as alternative forms of nutrition decrease in availability, incidents of cannibalism will increase. Lastly, in a given population, cannibalism is often directly related to the degree of overcrowding.By the 1990s, Dr. Polis’s generalizations had been observed among widely divergent animal groups, not just invertebrates. The benefits of consuming one’s own kind, it seemed, can outweigh the costs.That price, though, can be substantial. Cannibals that consume their own relatives remove those genes from the population, reducing what scientists call their inclusive fitness. But the most significant drawback appears to be a greater chance of acquiring harmful, species-specific parasites or pathogens.In the most famous example, the Fore people of New Guinea were nearly driven to extinction as a result of their ritualized consumption of brains and other tissues cut from the bodies of deceased kin. Many had died of kuru, a neurodegenerative condition similar to mad cow disease, and their tissues contained the pathogen, spreading it even further.As a new generation of researchers builds upon the work of scientists like Dr. Polis and Laurel Fox, an evolutionary biologist at the University of California, Santa Cruz, cannibalism in nature has begun to seem almost normal.We now know that a significant amount of cannibalism occurs in mollusks, insects and arachnids. Additionally, thousands of aquatic invertebrates like clams and corals have tiny eggs and larvae that are often a major food source for the filter-feeding adults — itself a form of indiscriminate cannibalism.In many fish species, adults can be a million times as large as their own eggs. Fish eggs, larvae and fry are vast in number, minute in size and high in nutritional value.This makes them a nonthreatening and easily collected food source. It is also why ichthyologists consider the absence of cannibalism in fishes, rather than its presence, to be the exceptional case.Although both fertilized and unfertilized eggs are probably eaten by thousands of species, the practice of consuming eggs from the same species has led to an interesting take on the “kids meal.” So-called trophic eggs, produced by some types of spiders, lady beetles and snails, function solely as food and often greatly outnumber the fertilized eggs in a given clutch.But the black lace-weaver spider (Amaurobius ferox) takes the concept of prepackaged meals a step further. One day after spiderlings hatch, new mothers lay a clutch of trophic eggs, which are doled out to their hungry babies. This keeps them satisfied for the next three days, after which the spiderlings are ready for their next stage of development.After their first molt, black lace-weaver spiderlings are too large for their mother to care for, though they are in dire need of additional food. In a sacrificial act of parenting, she calls the babies to her by drumming on the web and presses her body down into the gathering crowd.The ravenous spiderlings swarm over their mother’s body. Then they eat her alive.In sand tiger sharks (Carcharias taurus), the babies doing the cannibalizing are not even born yet.The young of sand tigers, like hammerheads (Sphyrna zygaena) and blue sharks (Prionace glauca), develop inside the females’ oviducts, a developmental strategy known as histotrophic viviparity.Scientists who first looked at late-term sand tiger embryos in 1948 noticed that these specimens were anatomically well developed, with mouths full of sharp teeth — a point (or several) driven home when one researcher was bitten on the hand while probing the oviduct of a pregnant specimen.Strangely, these late-term embryos also had swollen bellies, which were initially thought to be yolk sacs, a form of stored food. This was puzzling, since most of the nutrient-rich yolk should have been used up by this late stage of development.Further investigation showed that the abdominal bumps were not yolk sacs at all — they were stomachs full of smaller fetal sharks. These embryos had fallen victim to the ultimate in sibling rivalry, a form of in utero cannibalism known as adelphophagy (from the ancient Greek for “brother eating”) — sibling cannibalism.Such behavior is possible because sand tiger shark oviducts contain embryos at different developmental stages (a characteristic that also evolved in birds). Once the largest of the embryos run through their own yolk supply, they begin consuming eggs.And when the eggs are gone, the ravenous fetal sharks begin consuming their smaller siblings. Ultimately, only two pups remain, one in each oviduct.This is similar to the “lifeboat strategy” seen in birds like vultures and egrets. Here cannibalism is often the end result of asynchronous hatching: two eggs are laid, but one hatches several days before the other. The firstborn chick uses its extra bulk to win squabbles over food with its younger brother or sister.In instances where the parents are unable to provide enough to eat, the firstborn will kill and consume the younger sibling. During times of stress, this is an efficient way to produce well-nourished offspring — albeit fewer of them.Examples of animal cannibalism are as numerous as they are interesting, from spadefoot toad larvae who eat their own brood-mates to legless amphibians called caecilians whose hatchlings peel and consume their mothers’ skin. And they occur among mammals, too.Polar bears consume other polar bears, and were doing so long before climate change impacted their hunting practices. And male lions, after taking over a pride, will eat the cubs that another male has sired. Both are examples of heterocannibalism — the eating of nonrelatives.In lions, incoming males seek to terminate the maternal investment in unrelated cubs. More important, a lioness with cubs will not come into heat for a year and a half after giving birth. But, as has been observed in other mammals, like bears, a lioness that loses her cubs becomes sexually receptive almost immediately.Are there instances where, as in the animal kingdom, human cannibalism makes sense? And if so, could this behavior resurface in the future? Cannibalism may be gruesome, and repugnant to our current sensibilities, but it has been widely practiced for a variety of reasons.Funerary cannibalism was practiced by groups like the Fore of New Guinea and the Wari’ of Brazil. These indigenous people were as mortified at the concept of burying their dead as newly arrived missionaries and anthropologists were at the thought of consuming their own departed loved ones.From kings to commoners, Europeans, too, once routinely consumed human blood, bones, skin, guts and body parts. They did it without guilt, a form of medicinal cannibalism. They did it for hundreds of years, and then they made believe it never happened.Throughout their long history, body parts were such important ingredients in Chinese culinary cannibalism that the historian and author Key Ray Chong devoted a 13-page chapter in his book “Cannibalism in China” to “Methods of Cooking Human Flesh.” Rather than an emergency ration consumed as a last resort, there are many reports that exotic human-based dishes were prepared for Chinese royalty and upper-class citizens.Human cannibalism has also been an instrument of terror. The practice was used to instill horror and intense fear in dissenters during China’s Cultural Revolution, and Japanese soldiers cannibalized prisoners of war during World War II (a fate that President George H. W. Bush barely escaped after his plane was shot down).While filial piety is a highly regarded Confucian virtue, it was also the basis for an extreme act of cannibalism-related self-sacrifice. According to Chong, from ancient China through the 19th century, relatives provided parts of their own bodies (thigh and upper arm were the most commonly used) for the consumption and medical benefit of their elders.Then there are the more familiar stories, the tales of human cannibalism that springs from hunger. Throughout history and across multiple cultures, when people faced extremely stressful conditions like sieges, famines and strandings (the snowbound Donner Party), many eventually consumed their dead — even their own relatives.In a procedure that had become known to seafarers as “the custom of the sea,” sailors cast adrift on the open ocean drew straws. The sailor who drew the short straw gave up his life so that rest might eat. In perhaps the most famous case, in 1765 a storm dismasted the American sloop Peggy, leaving it adrift in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean with its captain, nine crewmen and a single slave.After consuming the ship’s cat, their uniform buttons and a leather bilge pump, and after the captain had retreated to his cabin clutching a pistol, the crew decided to draw lots. The loser was to be served up as dinner. By an incredible coincidence, the slave drew the short straw.Although the man begged for his life, the captain was unable to prevent his murder, later writing that as the crew prepared to cook the body, one sailor rushed in, tore away the slave’s liver and ate it raw. This is the horrific origin of the term “lifeboat strategy,” co-opted by ornithologists over two centuries later to describe the fate of unfortunate nestlings.As scientists have come to understand, factors like overpopulation and a lack of alternative forms of nutrition lead to cannibalism among animals, and it is clear that even modern humans have been driven to the behavior on many occasions. What, then, of the future?Populations are growing. Resources are dwindling. Deserts are spreading. And the societal rules that bind us together are proving more fragile than we ever imagined they could be. Maybe it is wise to remember that human cannibalism, so unthinkable now, was not uncommon not so long ago.
The greatest sign posted at a public fishing access spot in the United States is on the South Branch of the Au Sable River at a place called the Mason Tract. It reads: “Sportsman slow your pace … ahead lies the fabled land of the South Branch. Here generations of fisherman have cast a fly on one of the great trout streams of America. Hunters, too, have roamed these hills in the solitude so bountifully offered. The land is rich in tradition and stands ready to renew your soul. Tread lightly as you pass and leave no mark. Go forth in the spirit of George W. Mason, whose generous gift has made this forever possible.”George Mason was a Michigan industrialist who upon his death in 1954 donated 1,500 acres along the Au Sable River to the state with the caveat that it never be sold or developed. It was just as he left it: a pristine trout stream flowing 138 miles through the north country woods of the northern Lower Peninsula until it finally dumps into Lake Huron.My car was parked in front of the sign. I leaned against the hood as I kicked off my wet waders. I had spent a couple of hours fly fishing there and it was a satisfying afternoon, one that thousands of other anglers have experienced on this river. However, there is great worry about the health of the Au Sable, and many people believe the river is threatened by, of all things, more trout.It’s in the form of a fish farm in Grayling, a nearby city. A hatchery was built there in 1914. It was operated by the Michigan Department of Natural Resources back when trout were regularly stocked in the river. When the Au Sable produced sustainable populations of wild trout, the stocking ceased and the hatchery was taken over by Crawford County, which ran it as a seasonal tourist attraction that was difficult to keep in the black.In 2012, the county approached Dan Vogler, a fish farmer, who said he had figured out how to make it a profitable enterprise. It was a decision that would eventually polarize the community and land Mr. Vogler in court.I drove back into Grayling. The river runs through the heart of this town. It runs past Camp Grayling, the largest National Guard training center in the country.It flows past the elementary school, through backyards, next to downtown and eventually out into the country.The Grayling hatchery is right in town, next to the health care center. The gate was locked but from the bridge I could oversee the Au Sable as it flowed into the raceways, a network of regular concrete canals blocked with metal grates that keep the trout in but allow the Au Sable to flow through and out.Nobody was at the hatchery when I visited, but I later spoke with Mr. Vogler by phone. He lives in Harrietta, Mich., about 75 miles away, where he runs Harrietta Hills Trout Farm, also a flow-through hatchery, on Slagle Creek, a tributary of the Manistee River. It, like the Au Sable, is considered one of the best trout rivers east of the Rockies.In 2001, Mr. Vogler and his father bought a private fish farm in Harrietta, which he says is about the same size as the Grayling hatchery. At first, they sold trout to people who wanted to stock their ponds, but now their primary business is growing and selling trout to restaurants and grocery stores.When Crawford County asked Mr. Vogler to consider operating the Grayling hatchery, he determined it was a low-revenue business and not worth the trouble, but after a hard look, he figured the only way he could keep the historic hatchery open for tourism was to be able to raise fish there year round and sell those fish to his customers. He obtained a permit in summer 2013 and signed a long-term agreement with the county. Within 60 days, the Sierra Club and the Anglers of the Au Sable challenged the permit.“It is a discharge permit that does allow for the controlled release of a certain amount of nutrient from our facility, but it’s also an amount that has been determined by the Department of Environmental Quality to be nonharmful to the receiving waters,” Mr. Vogler said in an interview.“And of course, that’s where the argument starts. That’s been the thing that’s resulted in a rather lengthy hearing in an administrative law court,” he said, whose ruling he is still awaiting.“How much fish I produce is in a lot of ways irrelevant,” Mr. Vogler said, explaining that his permit controls how much waste from the fish can be discharged. “It doesn’t matter if I raise one fish or one million fish, I cannot exceed those limitations. It’s a hard limit. Thou shalt not discharge more than this.”Mr. Vogler is 47, the father of six and a Scoutmaster. He chuckles that he has been described as an aquaculture version of corporate Big Ag. “We’re a small family business,” he said. “I sit in my office with my dad and our office assistant literally back-to-back in the basement of my house. That’s our world headquarters.“I’ve got dirt under my fingernails, calluses on my hands, and we work hard every day to produce a healthy, affordable, local, fresh food product for people to eat. How does one have local food if one does not allow local production?”I got a tip from a local guide to head to the Ralph A. MacMullan Conference Center, a rustic lodge south of Grayling, on the shore of Higgins Lake. He said a lot of “river people” would be there that night.People chatted, sipped on beer and took their seats after some mingling. John Clark, the organizer of the event, explained the concept of a newly formed group called Celebrate Michigan Rivers. As he explained, there were many conservation groups fighting for the protection of rivers, but that evening was about taking a break from the fight and expressing appreciation for rivers.It was a refreshing evening as Michiganders have fought hard in recent years to protect rivers and clean water. In 2009, grass-roots conservationists settled a 10-year court battle against a Nestlé/Ice Mountain bottling plant to reduce the amount of water pumped from trout streams. In northern Michigan, fracking looms as a danger to rivers. And then there is the Flint River water crisis.I spoke with Josh Greenberg, author of “Rivers of Sand: Fly Fishing Michigan & the Great Lakes Region” and the owner of the Gates Au Sable Lodge, a historic fly fishing camp on a section of the river called the Holy Water. It is said that if God were to make a perfect trout stream, this would be it. He is a member of the Anglers of the Au Sable, one of the parties challenging the hatchery discharge permit.Mr. Greenberg said that an expert for the anglers’ group indicated that in the summer, the river was already running at levels that exceeded limits for dissolved oxygen set by the State Department of Environmental Quality. “So any additional phosphorus would only prove detrimental,” he said. “To me it boils down to: We know this is the most valuable brown trout fishery in the state and this is the largest fish farm. With no great reason economically to do the fish farm, why are we risking the Au Sable fishery for a few jobs?”Crawford County requires Mr. Vogler to have liability insurance for accidents and property damage, but his opponents say that isn’t enough. They want a performance bond in place in the event the river becomes degraded and restoration work needs to be done.The next day I stopped at the Old Au Sable Fly Shop and spoke with Andy Partlo, a co-owner. He is part of a long line of outfitters who have provided guide services in the Au Sable at the same site since 1868. After some talk about the latest fishing conditions, I asked him about the fish farm.“If you hold up a bottle of Au Sable river water, it’s going to look a lot like a bottle of Evian,” he said. “You hold up a bottle of agricultural runoff, I wouldn’t want to drink it, but boy you could grow some pretty damn big tomatoes.”The tomato-enriching water Mr. Partlo refers to contains phosphorus, a universal element in plant growth. In agriculture, phosphorus often comes in the form of animal manure that is later used to enrich farm fields. The effect on an aquatic environment is no different. Before the Clean Water Act, the City of Grayling dumped sewage into the river, which temporarily made the fishing even better, with heavy hatches of insects and fattened trout.“Why wouldn’t you want that?” Mr. Partlo continued. “Here’s what else we know: It’s an artificial fishery. The fishing went through this for a while and everything was fine and all of a sudden, we get this massive weed growth in the right conditions in the summer. That takes the dissolved oxygen out of the water and you get massive fish die-offs.” In those times, more trout would be stocked back into the river, he said, “so then it becomes an artificial fishery.”The trout are wild. That is a point of pride among anglers on the Au Sable. Much of the river is considered a naturally reproducing trout fishery. There is some stocking near the town of Mio under a dam. The fish get big there. The spot is nicknamed the “trophy waters,” but purist fly anglers stick upstream to pursue the wild ones.“When you catch an old brown trout, he hasn’t been caught since he was 10 inches long and now he’s the crafty old giant whitetail of the woods,” Mr. Partlo said. “You did something. It’s wild. You’re part of nature. You beat them at their game. That’s what we stand to lose and that’s the problem.“You don’t stand to lose the fishery. I’d be just as busy. I’d lose a lot of customers, but I’d have a whole bunch more that came in that don’t even care. But that’s not what the Au Sable is about.”“I’d move,” he added. “I’d literally move away.”That afternoon, I fished with Terry Warrington on the North Branch of the Au Sable. Huge explosions thundered in the distance. It was like the beginning of “Red Dawn” and rural America was under attack and Terry and I were out fly fishing amid the opening salvos of World War III.“Sounds like the National Guard is doing some training over there,” he said as he waved his fly rod past the tree line. The camp is a large contributor to the local economy. Grayling has little industry and poor soil for agriculture. There is limited logging in the forests cut many times over.In 1998, Mr. Warrington retired from teaching biology and chemistry at Michigan Tech and he and his wife moved to the Grayling area to be close to the Au Sable. At 76, he still fishes the river almost daily.In the air were the blue-winged olives, mayflies no bigger than a speck of fuzz. Mr. Warrington cast his zero-weight fly rod — one of the smallest rods manufactured — toward a seam of rising trout.His line and rod snapped tight and a small brook trout splattered the water. He brought it in and released it.“So many people suffer from big fish-itis,” he said. “It’s that they forget what they are out there for and that is for fun.”For the next hour, we took turns casting to the feeding trout. I lost count how many I caught, maybe five or six, and I missed plenty of others.“You were asking about that fish farm,” Mr. Warrington said. “As you can see now there are hardly any weeds. I remember 40 years ago there were so many weeds you couldn’t even fish. If phosphorus gets into this river it will turn it into a weed bed. And without this river, Grayling wouldn’t exist.”
A man in Boston rolled several student loans into one, and his balance doubled overnight, with no explanation.Near Chicago, a 39-year-old former graduate student who had a financial windfall sent in a $10,000 check to pay off his loans — and the payment was promptly lost.The same thing happened to a woman in Maryland, who uncovered the problem three years later, after her loan had grown by $11,000.And in New York City, a 41-year-old homeless man, who should qualify for reduced monthly payments, has been pleading for a break on his loan payments but says that no one is listening.Sound familiar?State and federal lawsuits filed this week accused Navient, the largest collector of student loan payments in the nation, of the kind of sloppiness and misleading tactics that emerged in the mortgage market in the years after the financial crisis.The company, which is fighting the lawsuits, has denied wrongdoing.“Navient has a well-established, superior track record of helping student loan borrowers succeed in repayment,” Patricia Nash Christel, a company spokeswoman, said in a written statement. “We will vigorously defend against these false allegations.”The accusations against Navient, by the nation’s consumer watchdog agency and attorneys general in two states, are aggravating a student loan crisis that has swept the United States. Student loan debt has surged to $1.4 trillion, eclipsing the totals for auto loans and credit cards, and burdening a generation with a mountain of debt just as its members try to find their financial footing.In recent years, the Obama administration has significantly expanded programs that allow people with federal student loans to cap their monthly payments at a fixed portion of their income. More than 80 percent of America’s outstanding student debt is in the form of federal loans, and most of the borrowers carrying that debt are eligible for such income-based payment plans, but enrolling in the programs can be complicated.Navient, which services the loans of roughly 12 million current and former students across the country, is responsible for keeping track of monthly payments on more than $300 billion in loans. It also has tremendous power — and leeway — in shepherding struggling borrowers through the process of either capping their monthly payments based on income or finding other ways of reducing those payments.Guiding these borrowers takes time and training. Navient, the lawsuits say, steered clients toward options that were simpler for the company.Anna Nepomuceno, 40, who lives in Tacoma, Wash., has been trying for years to get help from Navient. Around a decade ago, her partner, Andrew Brittell, 46, took out multiple loans totaling tens of thousands of dollars to attend DeVry, a for-profit school. Mr. Brittell now works in the billing department of a telecommunications company and takes home around $3,000 a month after taxes, barely covering the basic living expenses for their family of five.Mr. Brittell’s federal loans would probably qualify him for an income-based repayment plan, and he has repeatedly applied to Navient to participate in such a program. The company has repeatedly lost his paperwork, Ms. Nepomuceno said — and each time, Navient suggested that Mr. Brittell instead apply for yet another loan forbearance, a program that suspends payments while interest continues to accrue.Several of Mr. Brittell’s loans have been in forbearance for more than five years, Ms. Nepomuceno said. He has made no payments on them, and the balance due has ballooned to more than $90,000.Mr. Brittel “will put in the paperwork, and then they’ll tell us that it never went through, or that they lost it, and we should go on forbearance,” she said, adding: “This has happened over and over again. It’s like a vicious cycle.”Navient declined to comment on individual customers’ cases. But Mr. Brittell’s story is not unique, according to the suits filed this week, including one by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a government agency created under the 2010 financial reform laws that increased regulation of the financial industry.Lina Vitakauskas, who lives in the Chicago area, thought that income-based repayment was something that only younger students could take advantage of. It’s not; most federal borrowers are eligible for a plan, but navigating the thicket of different options that are available, each with their own eligibility requirements, can be daunting.It took more than six years, Ms. Vitakauskas, 43, said, to get her monthly payments lowered.In the meantime, her loan balance — money she took out to earn a graduate degree in English — grew to more than $100,000, nearly double what she originally borrowed.“I just felt like I was treading water,” she said.Half of Navient’s borrowers who were struggling and met the criteria for income-based repayment plans would qualify for a $0 monthly payment, the consumer bureau found in its analysis.But since 2010, Navient has enrolled some 1.5 million borrowers in at least two consecutive forbearances lasting 12 months or longer. Many of those borrowers would have been better off with an income-based plan, the bureau said.Adam S. Minsky, a lawyer in Boston, has worked with hundreds of clients trying to resolve problems with Navient.“They’re not providing blatant misinformation, but they’re not providing the borrower with the full spectrum of what their rights and options are,” Mr. Minsky said. “That in itself is a form of misrepresentation.”More than half of Navient’s customers who did manage to enroll in income-based plans fell out of them because they did not complete the annual renewal paperwork — a key step that Navient failed to prominently alert borrowers to, the lawsuits say.Navient also routinely lost or misapplied its customers’ payments, according to the suits.In December 2012, Rahat Khan of Rockville, Md., tried to make a dent in the loans she had taken out to finance her daughter’s education, going online to pay $38,000 she had borrowed against her house. Relieved, Ms. Khan, 62, thought she was done.But in 2015, she started to get collection calls on the student loan that she thought had been paid. “What loan, I remember asking,” she said. Swollen with interest and late fees, the loan had grown by $11,419.“I went through circles and circles,” said Ms. Khan, whose credit was tarnished because of the loan. It took Kathleen Hyland, a lawyer in Baltimore, to straighten it out.Scott Kenemore, 39, who lives in Evanston Ill., had no such help.Mr. Kenemore, a writer, sent Navient a check in August 2015 to pay off a balance of around $10,000 remaining on his graduate school student loans. Navient lost it, so he made a payment by phone instead. Then Navient apparently found the check — and tried to deposit it. Repeatedly.“I had to close my bank account over it, because Navient would just not stop and their customer service was absolutely useless,” Mr. Kenemore said.The roots of suits filed against Navient this week stretch back years. From October 2012 to March 2013, the consumer bureau logged more than 600 complaints about Sallie Mae, from which Navient split off in 2014, accounting for nearly half of all the complaints about student lenders during that period. That number grew rapidly: The agency’s database now holds more than 11,000 complaints against Sallie Mae and Navient.“Complaints reported to C.F.P.B. represent fewer than one-tenth of 1 percent of Navient customers and have been consistent with or below the market share of the loans we service,” said Ms. Christel, of Navient.Unless Navient agrees to settle, the lawsuits are likely to take years. The consumer bureau, and the attorneys general, said they were seeking restitution and a change in the company’s practices.“Every single one of the borrowers who is having their loan serviced by Navient or one of Navient’s companies is a borrower that’s impacted,” said Lisa Madigan, the Illinois attorney general, who filed one of the state cases. “If you’re looking to put a price tag on that, it’s billions of dollars.”
The idea of the New York City rock club may conjure images of graffiti-covered dives where business amounts to little more than beer sales.But in the increasingly consolidated concert business, the reality is that corporate dollars are taking over, even in the clubs that for decades seemed to embody rock music’s anti-establishment ethos.Competition has been escalating between the industry’s two corporate giants, Live Nation Entertainment, the sector leader, and No. 2 AEG Live, which owns the Staples Center in Los Angeles and controls the Coachella festival.In the latest sign, AEG has acquired half of the Bowery Presents, the indie promoter behind New York clubs like Terminal 5 and the Music Hall of Williamsburg, the leaders of the partner companies said last week in their first public comments about the deal.The deal, completed in late December, is estimated at $40 million, according to three people briefed on the deal who were not authorized to speak about it publicly. That amount includes investments and advances by AEG Live in addition to its purchase of equity, two of those people said. Both companies declined to comment on the price.The Bowery deal gives AEG one of the most influential promoters in the country, and also represents its latest chess move against Live Nation. In addition to bidding against each other for big tours — AEG’s roster includes Taylor Swift and Justin Bieber; Live Nation works with U2 and Beyoncé — the two companies look to taste-making entrepreneurs to develop festivals and spot talent.Their rivalry has quickly heightened in New York. Last year Live Nation bought the young company behind the Governors Ball, and AEG backed a new event, Panorama, put on by its division called Goldenvoice, the hipster-approved promoter behind Coachella. AEG’s talks for Bowery, meanwhile, were carried on for more than a year as perhaps the industry’s worst-kept secret.In an interview, Jay Marciano, the chairman of AEG Live, said that the Bowery Presents was now a crucial part of the company’s expansion plans. Bowery will book AEG’s local venues like the PlayStation Theater in Times Square and will also have a role at Panorama. AEG is also looking to secure more venues in the region for Bowery to operate, he added.“The Bowery represents a perfect complement to Goldenvoice and the market position we are looking to build or partner up with on the East Coast,” Mr. Marciano said.AEG has long played second fiddle to Live Nation in the concert world, booking fewer tours while concentrating on major real-estate assets like the L.A. Live complex, which houses the Staples Center, and O2 Arena in London. The company, which is controlled by the billionaire investor Philip F. Anschutz, does not disclose its finances, but executives have long said it is profitable; Live Nation posts repeated net losses. AEG’s future was briefly thrown into doubt in 2012 when Mr. Anschutz put AEG up for sale but then abruptly canceled the auction and replaced management.In recent years, however, AEG has quietly filled out its portfolio of venues. It now operates or books 75 clubs and theaters around the country, including more than 20 associated with the Bowery Presents, and has interests in more than 40 festivals; the most recent, Desert Trip, with the Rolling Stones, Paul McCartney and other boomer-era superstars, had a record-breaking $160 million in ticket sales. Live Nation has more than 80 festivals and operates more than 160 venues, according to company reports.As these two giants have grown, they have squeezed out or subsumed smaller competitors. In New York, for instance, the Bowery deal means that nearly a dozen of the most prominent clubs in New York will now be tied to two multibillion-dollar companies based in greater Los Angeles.“It’s getting harder and harder for an independent to survive in a major market,” said Steve Martin, a longtime talent agent at the APA agency in New York.Mr. Marciano noted that since AEG is under the private ownership of a single wealthy investor, it is able to support its partners like the Bowery Presents.“As an independent company, funding is always difficult to come by,” he said. “We have virtually unlimited capital for good projects.”For the Bowery, which puts on about 140 shows a month in the New York area, and has branches and partnerships throughout the Northeast and dotted across the South, it is business as usual despite the AEG deal, said Jim Glancy and John Moore, the company’s two principal partners.Indeed, part of AEG’s pitch to the company was its continued autonomy. In the fall of 2015, Mr. Marciano convened a dinner in SoHo where he let Mr. Glancy and Mr. Moore be wooed by some of the promoters AEG has partnerships with, including Paul Tollett of Goldenvoice and Louis Messina, who presents tours by Kenny Chesney and Ms. Swift. They each testified to the company’s hands-off management style.“When you’re an indie company like Bowery, you want to feel you can make your own decisions,” Mr. Tollett said in an interview. “I told them that we run it the Goldenvoice way out here, and AEG is cool with it.”The negotiations with Bowery were drawn out by its complex ownership structure, involving numerous partnerships. The deal does not include what are perhaps the company’s two most famous clubs, the Mercury Lounge and its namesake, the Bowery Ballroom. Those are owned by Michael Swier, who founded the company and left the partnership. Mr. Marciano said that he and Mr. Swier had not yet discussed a deal.For Mr. Glancy and Mr. Moore, the deal offers a way to better manage what they called the less glamorous side of running the business, like technology and finance. In the spring they will leave their longtime offices on a gentrified block of the Lower East Side for more spacious quarters uptown. But they both said that the deal was their choice.“If we hadn’t done this deal, we could have continued for years and years as we did,” Mr. Glancy said.“We didn’t have to,” Mr. Moore added. “We wanted to.”
WASHINGTON — Congressional Republicans, meeting behind closed doors this week in Philadelphia, expressed grave concerns about dismantling the Affordable Care Act on the urgent timetable demanded by President Trump, fretting that, among other things, they could wreck insurance markets and be saddled with a politically disastrous “Trumpcare.”An audio recording of a session at their annual retreat, obtained by The New York Times, shows Republicans in disarray, far from agreement on health policy, and still searching for something to replace former President Barack Obama’s health care law. While their leaders called for swift action to rescue consumers from the Affordable Care Act, some backbench Republicans worried about potential pitfalls.“We had better be sure that we are prepared to live with the market being created,” said Representative Tom McClintock of California, because “that’s going to be called Trumpcare.”He added, “Republicans will own it lock, stock and barrel, and we’ll be judged on that.”When Democrats were writing the Affordable Care Act seven years ago, their primary goal was to provide health insurance to more people, an ambition that the Obama administration went to great lengths to fulfill as it enrolled millions of people in Medicaid or private health plans.Now, as Republicans try to devise a replacement for the law, they have set a nearly impossible standard for themselves: They have promised that none of the 20 million people who gained coverage through the Affordable Care Act will lose it if the law is repealed, even as they lift its mandates and penalties, pull back the tax increases that pay for it and pledge to enact a new program that will be cheaper for taxpayers and consumers.In their private session, the recording of which was first reported on by The Washington Post, Republicans revealed that they understood the predicament they had largely created for themselves.“I recognize that we can’t keep Obama’s promises,” Representative Tom MacArthur of New Jersey said. “They were wrong to begin with, and the system can’t be sustained.” He worried aloud about the possibility that some people could lose insurance as the law is unwound.“We’re telling those people that we’re not going to pull the rug out from under them, and if we do this too fast, we are, in fact, going to pull the rug out from under them,” Mr. MacArthur said. After giving states the choice to expand Medicaid under the law, he said, reversing that expansion too quickly would run the risk of pulling a “bait and switch with the states.”The lawmakers’ concerns contrasted with the confidence that Republican leaders and President Trump have expressed as they rush to replace Mr. Obama’s signature domestic achievement, also known as Obamacare. Congress this month approved a budget blueprint that clears the way for quick action to repeal major provisions of the law, and Mr. Trump has said Congress should repeal and replace the law at the same time, putting pressure on lawmakers to agree on an alternative.That budget measure created an aspirational deadline to draft repeal legislation by Jan. 27, a day that came and went.Privately, Republicans made clear they understand the risks they are running. At their session this week, they voiced concern that their efforts to undo the law could have harmful consequences, such as inadvertently destabilizing insurance markets — a concern shared by Democrats and insurers.Under Senate rules, the Senate could vote to repeal major provisions of the Affordable Care Act using fast-track procedures that neutralize the threat of a Democratic filibuster. “We can repeal parts of it,” Mr. McClintock said, “and the parts that remain, I’m concerned, could make the market even more dysfunctional.”Republican leaders tried to reassure anxious backbenchers, making the same points in private as they have in public.“We don’t own Obamacare,” said Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming, the chairman of the Senate Republican Policy Committee, adding: “We are the rescue party. We campaigned to provide relief and help repair the damage.”Republican leaders have predicted that Democrats will come to the table to help draft a replacement once it becomes clear that the health law will be repealed. But some rank-and-file members were not so sure.Representative John Katko of New York wondered what Republicans would do “if we can’t get anything out of the Democrats.”Another New York Republican, Representative John J. Faso, warned colleagues they were playing with fire if they cut off funds for Planned Parenthood clinics, as Speaker Paul D. Ryan has said Republicans intend to do.“Health insurance is going to be tough enough for us to deal with, without allowing millions of people on social media to come to Planned Parenthood’s defense,” Mr. Faso said. He wanted to know from the administration that “we’re not going to have a tweet from the president” saying “we should protect Planned Parenthood.””We’re making a grave mistake including this Planned Parenthood provision in a health care bill,” he said.For many Republicans, coverage and cost are still the most important issues. Estimates of the number of people who will gain or lose coverage will affect the outlook for any proposal to dismantle and replace the 2010 law. If the Congressional Budget Office, the nonpartisan scorekeeper on Capitol Hill, concludes that a significant number of people could lose coverage under a Republican plan, opposition from lawmakers — including Republicans — could jeopardize passage.Before Mr. Trump stepped into the debate with his call for “insurance for everybody,” Republicans were choosing their words with utmost caution: Their goal in replacing the health law was to guarantee “universal access,” they said, not necessarily universal coverage.“We will give everyone access to affordable health care coverage,” Mr. Ryan said in early December when asked if Republicans had a plan to cover everyone.But that discipline has broken down as lawmakers hear from constituents terrified of losing insurance and as Mr. Trump weighs in.“No one who has coverage because of Obamacare today will lose that coverage,” Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington, the chairwoman of the House Republican Conference, said on Jan. 10.A spokeswoman for Ms. McMorris Rodgers later tried to clarify what she had said. The congresswoman “didn’t deliver her remarks exactly as prepared,” the spokeswoman said. In the prepared remarks, Ms. McMorris Rodgers included an important qualification: “No one who has coverage because of Obamacare today will lose that coverage the day it’s repealed” — in the transition to a new market-oriented health care system.But Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Senate Republican, has made a sweeping commitment just like the one by Ms. McMorris Rodgers. After meeting with governors on Jan. 19, Mr. Cornyn was asked about concerns that people who benefited from the expansion of Medicaid might lose that coverage with a repeal.“We’re all concerned, but it ain’t going to happen,” Mr. Cornyn said. He amplified the point, adding: “Nobody’s going to lose coverage. Obviously, people covered today will continue to be covered. And the hope is we’ll expand access. Right now 30 million people are not covered under Obamacare.”A spokesman for Mr. Cornyn said he “meant no one will lose access to coverage.”Chris Jacobs, a health policy analyst who used to work for Republicans in Congress, said Republicans and Mr. Trump were at risk of overpromising, just as Mr. Obama did.“Conservatives should not remain fixated on the number of people with health insurance when designing an Obamacare alternative,” Mr. Jacobs said. “We will never win the battle with liberals if you measure success in terms of how many people have health insurance cards. We don’t want to spend as much as liberals, and we don’t believe in coercing people to buy insurance.”Democrats remember how Republicans hounded Mr. Obama for breaking his promise that “if you like your health care plan, you can keep your health care plan.” Democrats say they will hold congressional Republicans and the Trump administration accountable in the same way.Increasing the number of people with insurance was a lodestar for the Obama administration. It spent tens of millions of dollars advertising the benefits of the law. It extended deadlines to give people more time to sign up. It allowed many people to sign up outside the regular annual enrollment period and played down the significance of big premium increases, saying consumers could get subsidies to defray the costs.Republicans say they can get the same results for less money and without a statutory mandate that most Americans have insurance. But without that requirement, budget analysts say, it will be difficult for Republicans to achieve coverage gains as large as those achieved under the Affordable Care Act.“It’s easier for the Congressional Budget Office to estimate significant coverage effects if there is a federal requirement” for people to have insurance, said Douglas W. Elmendorf, who was the budget office director from 2009 to 2015. “It would be very hard to maintain the levels of insurance coverage we have now without the penalties and subsidies.”
SAN FRANCISCO — Google and Facebook have been taking steps to curb the number of false news articles propagated across their sites. On Wednesday, the Silicon Valley companies showed that they were still in the early stages of their battle to limit misinformation online.In a blog post, Google said it had permanently banned nearly 200 publishers from its AdSense advertising network near the end of last year, after putting into effect a policy in November to choke off websites that try to deceive users from its online ad service.On the same day, Facebook introduced changes to its Trending Topics feature — a part of the social network that some have blamed for spreading false information — to better promote reliable news articles.Yet taken together, the efforts showed how the fight against fake news remains a work in progress. Google’s bans were a drop in the bucket compared with the almost two million publishers that use AdSense. Facebook’s new measures were part of a continuing series of small experiments by the company to find out what worked best in displaying news to its users.“We genuinely asked Google and Facebook for ‘moonshots,’” said Jason Kint, the chief executive of Digital Content Next, an online publishing industry group. “We appreciate the work, but based on the numbers, that’s hardly even running in place.”Google and Facebook have been in something of a no-win situation in recent months when it comes to fake news. Both companies have been grappling with a widespread backlash over how their sites may have spread rumors on a vast scale, and how little responsibility they take for any of the content that appears on their platforms. The issue came to a head after the American presidential election, when commentators accused Facebook in particular of swaying voters to President Trump through misleading and untrue news articles.In response, both companies have tried various measures to limit fake news. Google in November said it would ban sites that spread misinformation from AdSense as a way to impair how such sites make money. That same month, Facebook updated some of its policy language, which already said it would not display ads on sites that show misleading or illegal content, to include fake news sites. Facebook has since introduced other changes, including consulting third-party news organizations like The Associated Press and ABC News about the accuracy of articles that users report as being false.Google’s blog post on Wednesday was the first time the company explained the results of its moves against publishers that spread misinformation. The search giant said it reviewed 550 sites “suspected of misrepresenting content to users, including impersonating news organizations” in November and December. It took action against 340 of those sites and kicked nearly 200 publishers off its network permanently.Google was careful not to say that these were fake news sites, only sites that deceive users by misrepresenting themselves or their content. This month, Media Matters noted that Google changed the language of its advertising policy, removing the words “fake news.” Google said the language change noted by Media Matters involved examples that help explain its policy but were not changes to the actual policy. Google declined to identify the sites or publishers it banned.Before taking steps to thwart fake news publishers, Google had an existing policy that outlawed publishers of “misrepresentative content,” such as websites peddling weight-loss schemes or counterfeit goods. It expanded this policy to include sites impersonating news organizations.Google was pulled into the fake news debate when Mediaite reported that, in the days after the election, the top result on a Google search for “final election vote count 2016” was a link to an article that incorrectly stated that Mr. Trump, who won the Electoral College, was ahead of his Democratic challenger, Hillary Clinton, in the popular vote.Google said that its search algorithms fell short but that the company would continue to work to improve its results.The AdSense system is a major revenue driver for independent web publishers who rely on the network to deliver display advertising on their sites. The publishers are paid when a reader views or clicks on those ads, with a portion of the proceeds going to Google. AdSense is one of the largest advertising networks on the web with nearly two million publishers using the system.Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the number of sites it has banned since November.Trending Topics is a feature on the social network that tells people what popular topics are being discussed on the site. Apart from more transparency around headlines, the changes to the feature on Wednesday included identifying popular topics through the number of publishers posting articles on Facebook about a piece of news, rather than engagement around a single article.“Today’s update may also help prevent hoaxes and fake news from appearing in Trending because the updated system identifies groups of articles shared on Facebook instead of relying solely on mentions of a topic,” the company said in a blog post.Still, industry watchers remain skeptical about the efficacy of these moves.“Nothing drives clicks better than when the headline is exactly what people want to hear or believe,” Ian Schafer, the chief executive and founder of Deep Focus, a digital advertising agency, referring specifically to Google. Mr. Schafer said that without significant changes to the economics and technology of online ads, banning individual sites would not produce change in the long run.
The deadliest strain of tuberculosis is XDR-TB, the “extensively drug-resistant” type, meaning that many antibiotics do not work against it.XDR-TB is rare but very lethal. Curing it takes up to two years, and the drugs prescribed can cause permanent deafness, nerve damage, vomiting and rashes. Between 50 percent and 80 percent of those who start treatment die.XDR-TB has been reported in 117 countries, according to the World Health Organization. Most cases are isolated, but thousands of hidden cases are likely to exist because it takes multiple lab tests to detect each one.The worst known outbreak is in South Africa, in the rural Zulu-dominated mountains behind Durban, where H.I.V. is also extremely common.In 2006, researchers there reported an alarming finding: 52 out of 53 patients with both H.I.V. and XDR-TB had died, and half died within a month of getting a diagnosis.Initially, doctors thought most patients had developed XDR-TB because of “treatment failure” — that they had had regular TB or a slightly drug-resistant version, and because they had either not been prescribed the right drugs or had not taken them all, their infections became resistant to multiple drugs.Instead, they found many patients had never been treated, implying that the deadliest strain was being transmitted between people.Now a study, published in The New England Journal of Medicine by South African and American scientists, has shown the problem there is much bigger than previously realized.The investigators looked into 404 cases of XDR-TB detected over four years, interviewing patients and their relatives to see who had been treated before and who had contact with whom. The researchers also genetically typed patients’ strains. Almost 80 percent of the patients also had H.I.V.More than two-thirds of the patients had never been treated for drug-resistant TB, the scientists found, and 84 percent had strains closely related to at least one other patient’s. There was even one cluster of 212 related cases.That suggested, the authors concluded, that most victims contracted TB not through treatment failure, but rather directly from another victim through coughing, spitting or other close contact. Family contacts were the most dangerous; clusters were spread across generations and houses.Hospitals were also dangerous. Sixty-one percent of the patients who had spent time in hospitals before they received a diagnosis were linked to another patient in the same hospital. Suspected transmission to co-workers was also found.No clusters were found in churches, bars, beauty salons, prisons or restaurants that patients said they spent substantial amounts of time in. Other threats include crowded buses and clinic waiting areas.In a separate online forum, the authors discussed ways to lower risks, like installing germicidal ultraviolet lights or tracking and isolating dangerous “superspreader” patients. No easy solution to the growing threat emerged.
MEXICO CITY — Hunkered down in the presidential palace, Enrique Peña Nieto, the unpopular leader of Mexico, was besieged on both sides.The new American president, Donald J. Trump, had just ordered the construction of a border wall between the two countries, and the public outcry in Mexico was deafening. Top cabinet officials, meanwhile, counseled caution, urging Mr. Peña Nieto not to cancel his meeting with Mr. Trump at the White House next week.For months, though his ratings hovered near the single digits, the worst of any Mexican president in recent history, Mr. Peña Nieto resisted the temptation to saber-rattle, arguing that the relationship with America was simply too important to fall prey to a war of words.He wanted to give diplomacy one last try. By Thursday morning, the effort had officially failed.In a blitz of Twitter messages from the two presidents, fired off over the past two days, the first full-blown foreign policy standoff of the Trump administration has taken shape.The public sparring came after months of simmering tensions between the two men. For decades, the United States and Mexico have expanded their cooperation and increasingly entwined their fortunes. Now the relationship between America and one of its most important allies and trading partners is being rewritten — on Twitter — culminating in a remarkable back-and-forth as the world looked on.It began with Mr. Trump’s proclamation to build the wall. Next came a diplomatic response from Mr. Peña Nieto, urging unity, accompanied by suggestions from his aides that the meeting might be scrapped over the offense.Mr. Trump followed on Thursday morning with a threat to cancel the meeting himself. Soon after, Mr. Peña Nieto officially announced that he would not attend, effectively beating Mr. Trump to the punch.The exchange offered insight into the evolution of Mexico’s president, who began his term with great fanfare in 2012, only to be hounded by scandal, the violence engulfing his nation, a steady decline in the polls and, now, perhaps the worst period in Mexican-American relations since President Calvin Coolidge.After Mr. Peña Nieto called off the meeting in a Twitter post, Mr. Trump fired back, accusing Mexico of burdening the United States with illegal immigrants, criminals and a trade deficit.“Most illegal immigration is coming from our southern border,” Mr. Trump said at a Republican retreat. “I’ve said many times that the American people will not pay for the wall, and I’ve made that clear to the government of Mexico.”Now Mr. Peña Nieto must find a way to preserve his nation’s economic interests while confronting an unpredictable, and at times hostile, American president.In some respects, Mexico has become a trial run for Mr. Trump’s promise to place America first on the global stage.In his dealings with Mr. Trump, Mr. Peña Nieto has found himself in a bind: trapped between his own people, who have demanded a vehement response to Mr. Trump’s taunts about Mexico, and a foreign leader who controls much of his country’s destiny.“Peña Nieto has made a superhuman effort,” said Jesus Silva-Herzog, a professor at the School of Government at Tecnológico de Monterrey. “He has gone above and beyond to preserve the friendship with America and has done everything possible, while risking all of his prestige and popularity, to try to find a common ground of trust with Mr. Trump.”During the campaign and now as president, Mr. Trump has taken aim at perhaps the most prized possession of Mexico: its image. Throughout his presidency, the Mexican leader has tried to portray his country as a place of economic opportunity, a cultural capital and a nation rising on the world stage. Mr. Trump has sought to show the opposite, characterizing Mexico as a bastion of crime, illegal immigration and unfair trade.Mr. Peña Nieto has faced a dilemma: to defend Mexico’s honor, or to defend its national interests by preserving ties with the United States at all costs.For months, Mr. Peña Nieto made his choice clear. To the growing anger of many Mexicans, he avoided responding rashly to Mr. Trump. Calls for the building of a wall, promises to deport millions and threats to tear up the North American Free Trade Agreement have been met with measured, understated responses. Adding to his vulnerability are the millions of Mexican citizens living in the United States, whom Mr. Trump appeared to target in his executive orders on Wednesday.For Mr. Peña Nieto, the economics were particularly difficult. Having begun his presidency with a focus on the economy, the idea of canceling Nafta or leaving Mexico a less desirable place for foreign investment was an existential crisis waiting to happen.Dialogue, Mr. Peña Nieto said, was the only way forward. It was in keeping with the start of his administration, when he negotiated the passage of several major economic reforms with two rival political parties, paving the way for needed changes to the nation’s antiquated systems of telecommunications, energy and education.Soon after that, his administration began to face headwinds. The disappearance of 43 teaching students, a scandal involving his wife’s purchase of a house, and a moribund economy began to gnaw at his popularity, and the slide in approval ratings continued from there.By the time Mr. Peña Nieto invited Mr. Trump to Mexico for a visit during the American presidential campaign, his own image was as tarnished as the one Mr. Trump had painted of Mexico. The Mexican leader was trying to find common ground and engage in dialogue with the candidate, but at home, it was a political miscalculation. His reputation in Mexico sank even further.But once Mr. Trump took office and pushed to make good on his campaign pledge to build a wall, the pressure on Mr. Peña Nieto became too great. Across the Mexican political and intellectual class, calls for him to cancel the meeting reached a fever pitch this week. Officials and experts said Mr.  Trump’s Twitter post Thursday morning, suggesting he might cancel the meeting, made the decision less controversial: Mr. Peña Nieto could not let Mr. Trump be the one to cancel.“It would have been like a cousin inviting us to dinner and then uninviting us, or worse, said we were only allowed to come if we paid for dinner,” Mr. Silva-Herzog said, referring to Mr. Trump’s repeated promises to make Mexico pay for the wall.Now, despite the tensions with the United States and the problems they may cause, there is a silver lining, especially for the perception of Mr. Peña Nieto at home.“These are ugly times, and things will get uglier. I don’t really see a way out it, but in this context, our great advantage will be that Mexicans are united,” Javier Solórzano, a prominent journalist, said in a video posted online. The country, he added, “is now united around the president.”
ROMFORD, England — At the greyhound track in Romford the mood is tense. “Think big,” one racecourse employee breathes into my ear, referring not to life in general but to dog No. 6, a muzzled male he reckons has a chance to win.I watch as fellow bettors nibble on soggy fish and chips and study their betting cards, and as bookmakers write and rewrite the odds on their whiteboards. It is raining.The scene could not be more English, and that is fitting: Romford is where wealthy London becomes not-so-wealthy Essex, a county that prides itself on its ancient Englishness — not the upper-class variety with clipped private school accents but that of “patriotic, hard-working people who might describe themselves as working class,” says Andrew Rosindell, the local member of Parliament, a Conservative.Seven months after a referendum vote to leave the European Union, many in Romford also describe themselves as impatient.There is impatience with Supreme Court judges, who last week affirmed a lower-court ruling that the government must seek the approval of Parliament before starting talks for the so-called Brexit. (“Enemies of the people,” one woman commented matter of factly, echoing a recent tabloid headline.)And there is impatience with Prime Minister Theresa May, who outlined her vision of a clean break with the European Union this month and promised to begin exit negotiations in March, but is distrusted here because she once backed the campaign to remain in the bloc.With 10 minutes to go until the first race of the night, the conversation at the greyhound track turns to Brexit.“What is taking them so long?” one man laments.“There will be an uprising if nothing comes to fruition,” another predicts darkly.“Wait, we haven’t left yet?” a third asks. “But we voted out!”Romford and the Borough of Havering were so eager for Brexit that the local council voted for it five months before everyone else — in a motion last January proposed by Lawrence Webb, the local representative of the anti-European U.K. Independence Party. A well-judged stunt: politically unbinding, widely mocked in the metropolitan press but a sign of things to come.Earlier, Mr. Webb had picked me up from the train station. We strolled through Romford Market, immortalized in “Market Boy,” a play by David Eldridge. It is usually a bustling affair of 150 stalls and at least as many St. George’s crosses, he said, but in freezing temperatures it is rather more subdued.Flanked by a modern shopping mall on one side and a 19th-century church on the other, the market has been in operation since 1247, a banner at its entrance claims. Under the Royal Charter granted by King Henry III, no other market is permitted to set up within a radius of six and two-thirds miles (apparently the distance a sheep can walk in a day). So old is Romford that the River Rom was named after the town, rather than the other way around.But for all that proud tradition, Romford isn’t what it used to be, Mr. Webb says. People work harder than five years ago, but earn less. They worry about rising rents and their children’s education. They are concerned that recent immigrants from the European Union are jumping the line in getting public services.I tell him that in central London some people are hoping for regrets among those who voted for Brexit, for a realization that leaving Europe would make everyone poorer, that it had all been a terrible mistake.“Some of the people you meet at dinner parties in London have their head so deep up their backsides they can’t see the light of day,” Mr. Webb says. “I just got off the phone with a family evicted from their temporary accommodation after they lost their council house. Landlords are throwing people out. That’s what is happening.”The Supreme Court decision last week has only deepened the distrust of “London elites,” he says. And if that ruling has revived hopes of slowing down or softening Brexit in the British capital, a mere 45-minute train ride southwest of here, in Romford people talk about speeding things up.“The plan is to delay, delay, delay so they never have to go through with Brexit,” Mr. Webb says. Article 50, the legal procedure that, once triggered, sets off a two-year irreversible countdown for the divorce from the European Union, “could have been triggered on Day 1 if they were serious about leaving.”Could there be an uprising, as some locals have predicted?“No, the fight will be at the ballot box,” Mr. Webb says. “You watch,” he adds. “If the Conservatives betray the people again, it’s UKIP’s gain. That’s what happened in America.”If people here have not been tempted too much by UKIP so far, it is in part because Mr. Rosindell, the local member of Parliament, is as nationalist and anti-European as anyone.His office is in the Margaret Thatcher House, named after Britain’s first female prime minister, who once championed the common European market but toward the end of her career became a Euroskeptic, banging her handbag for effect. Mr. Rosindell recounts proudly how he once took an aging Mrs. Thatcher greyhound racing. (She had her picture taken with a dog that — unbeknown to her, one must assume — was called Tom Euro.)“Welcome to the heartland of the Thatcherite ideal,” Mr. Rosindell beams when I step inside. “We value tradition, family, nation, the flag, heritage and monarchy.”That went without saying. There are 44 British flags, or Union Jacks, in the hallway; six portraits of Mrs. Thatcher; three portraits of Queen Elizabeth II; and a bust of Winston Churchill. Buster, Mr. Rosindell’s Staffordshire bull terrier, a popular English breed, wears a Union Jack waistcoat. Even the rug on the floor is the British flag.“Is that not disrespectful?” I ask as I wipe my muddy boots on it.No, Mr. Rosindell says, it’s good to have a “sense of humor about these things.”“We have Union Jack bikinis and Union Jack underpants,” he says cheerfully. It is a sign of “modern” patriotism, he says.The bunting in his office is red, white and blue. “Why the French national colors?” I joke.“They’re not French!”“Russian?”To be fair, he chuckles. Born in 1966, the year England won the World Cup (“A good year to be born, a good year to be English,” he says), Mr. Rosindell believes strongly that Britain should leave the European Union and that “anything that is seen to derail the process will be seen as a betrayal by the elites.”In the nearby market, some stallholders count Mr. Rosindell as part of that elite. “Air Miles Andy,” they call him. Many say they do not bother voting anymore and went to the polling station for the Brexit referendum only because, for once, they felt their vote could make a difference.“Choosing between Labour and Conservative is like choosing one disease over another,” says Steve Wickenden, Sticky to his friends, who sells meat next to a painted English flag with the slogan “Come on England.”A father of three, Mr. Wickenden is not really worried about the dire economic consequences from Brexit he hears about on television. “You can’t make an omelet without breaking some eggs,” he says. “We’ve broken the eggs. Now we need to make the omelet.”Back at the greyhound track, the anticipation has been building for an hour. Finally the gates open, and a fake orange hare is sent whizzing along a rail on the outside boundary of the racing track at 33 miles an hour, six hounds in hot pursuit.The noise level briefly rises. It is over in seconds. “A bit like sex,” one bookie comments.The dog called Think Big came in second to last. No matter. People in Romford have had it with thinking big. Little England might be an insult elsewhere. Not here.“Globalization, Europe, and where has that got us?” scoffs the bookie. “Nothing wrong with Little England.”
ROMFORD, England — At the greyhound track in Romford the mood is tense. “Think big,” one racecourse employee breathes into my ear, referring not to life in general but to dog No. 6, a muzzled male he reckons has a chance to win.I watch as fellow bettors nibble on soggy fish and chips and study their betting cards, and as bookmakers write and rewrite the odds on their whiteboards. It is raining.The scene could not be more English, and that is fitting: Romford is where wealthy London becomes not-so-wealthy Essex, a county that prides itself on its ancient Englishness — not the upper-class variety with clipped private school accents but that of “patriotic, hard-working people who might describe themselves as working class,” says Andrew Rosindell, the local member of Parliament, a Conservative.Seven months after a referendum vote to leave the European Union, many in Romford also describe themselves as impatient.There is impatience with Supreme Court judges, who last week affirmed a lower-court ruling that the government must seek the approval of Parliament before starting talks for the so-called Brexit. (“Enemies of the people,” one woman commented matter of factly, echoing a recent tabloid headline.)And there is impatience with Prime Minister Theresa May, who outlined her vision of a clean break with the European Union this month and promised to begin exit negotiations in March, but is distrusted here because she once backed the campaign to remain in the bloc.With 10 minutes to go until the first race of the night, the conversation at the greyhound track turns to Brexit.“What is taking them so long?” one man laments.“There will be an uprising if nothing comes to fruition,” another predicts darkly.“Wait, we haven’t left yet?” a third asks. “But we voted out!”Romford and the Borough of Havering were so eager for Brexit that the local council voted for it five months before everyone else — in a motion last January proposed by Lawrence Webb, the local representative of the anti-European U.K. Independence Party. A well-judged stunt: politically unbinding, widely mocked in the metropolitan press but a sign of things to come.Earlier, Mr. Webb had picked me up from the train station. We strolled through Romford Market, immortalized in “Market Boy,” a play by David Eldridge. It is usually a bustling affair of 150 stalls and at least as many St. George’s crosses, he said, but in freezing temperatures it is rather more subdued.Flanked by a modern shopping mall on one side and a 19th-century church on the other, the market has been in operation since 1247, a banner at its entrance claims. Under the Royal Charter granted by King Henry III, no other market is permitted to set up within a radius of six and two-thirds miles (apparently the distance a sheep can walk in a day). So old is Romford that the River Rom was named after the town, rather than the other way around.But for all that proud tradition, Romford isn’t what it used to be, Mr. Webb says. People work harder than five years ago, but earn less. They worry about rising rents and their children’s education. They are concerned that recent immigrants from the European Union are jumping the line in getting public services.I tell him that in central London some people are hoping for regrets among those who voted for Brexit, for a realization that leaving Europe would make everyone poorer, that it had all been a terrible mistake.“Some of the people you meet at dinner parties in London have their head so deep up their backsides they can’t see the light of day,” Mr. Webb says. “I just got off the phone with a family evicted from their temporary accommodation after they lost their council house. Landlords are throwing people out. That’s what is happening.”The Supreme Court decision last week has only deepened the distrust of “London elites,” he says. And if that ruling has revived hopes of slowing down or softening Brexit in the British capital, a mere 45-minute train ride southwest of here, in Romford people talk about speeding things up.“The plan is to delay, delay, delay so they never have to go through with Brexit,” Mr. Webb says. Article 50, the legal procedure that, once triggered, sets off a two-year irreversible countdown for the divorce from the European Union, “could have been triggered on Day 1 if they were serious about leaving.”Could there be an uprising, as some locals have predicted?“No, the fight will be at the ballot box,” Mr. Webb says. “You watch,” he adds. “If the Conservatives betray the people again, it’s UKIP’s gain. That’s what happened in America.”If people here have not been tempted too much by UKIP so far, it is in part because Mr. Rosindell, the local member of Parliament, is as nationalist and anti-European as anyone.His office is in the Margaret Thatcher House, named after Britain’s first female prime minister, who once championed the common European market but toward the end of her career became a Euroskeptic, banging her handbag for effect. Mr. Rosindell recounts proudly how he once took an aging Mrs. Thatcher greyhound racing. (She had her picture taken with a dog that — unbeknown to her, one must assume — was called Tom Euro.)“Welcome to the heartland of the Thatcherite ideal,” Mr. Rosindell beams when I step inside. “We value tradition, family, nation, the flag, heritage and monarchy.”That went without saying. There are 44 British flags, or Union Jacks, in the hallway; six portraits of Mrs. Thatcher; three portraits of Queen Elizabeth II; and a bust of Winston Churchill. Buster, Mr. Rosindell’s Staffordshire bull terrier, a popular English breed, wears a Union Jack waistcoat. Even the rug on the floor is the British flag.“Is that not disrespectful?” I ask as I wipe my muddy boots on it.No, Mr. Rosindell says, it’s good to have a “sense of humor about these things.”“We have Union Jack bikinis and Union Jack underpants,” he says cheerfully. It is a sign of “modern” patriotism, he says.The bunting in his office is red, white and blue. “Why the French national colors?” I joke.“They’re not French!”“Russian?”To be fair, he chuckles. Born in 1966, the year England won the World Cup (“A good year to be born, a good year to be English,” he says), Mr. Rosindell believes strongly that Britain should leave the European Union and that “anything that is seen to derail the process will be seen as a betrayal by the elites.”In the nearby market, some stallholders count Mr. Rosindell as part of that elite. “Air Miles Andy,” they call him. Many say they do not bother voting anymore and went to the polling station for the Brexit referendum only because, for once, they felt their vote could make a difference.“Choosing between Labour and Conservative is like choosing one disease over another,” says Steve Wickenden, Sticky to his friends, who sells meat next to a painted English flag with the slogan “Come on England.”A father of three, Mr. Wickenden is not really worried about the dire economic consequences from Brexit he hears about on television. “You can’t make an omelet without breaking some eggs,” he says. “We’ve broken the eggs. Now we need to make the omelet.”Back at the greyhound track, the anticipation has been building for an hour. Finally the gates open, and a fake orange hare is sent whizzing along a rail on the outside boundary of the racing track at 33 miles an hour, six hounds in hot pursuit.The noise level briefly rises. It is over in seconds. “A bit like sex,” one bookie comments.The dog called Think Big came in second to last. No matter. People in Romford have had it with thinking big. Little England might be an insult elsewhere. Not here.“Globalization, Europe, and where has that got us?” scoffs the bookie. “Nothing wrong with Little England.”
WASHINGTON — By some measures, President Trump has altered the perception of American foreign policy more in the past seven days than his predecessors did in the past seven decades.A nation that built its brand around the world as open to the world’s needy and ambitious is now viewed, after Mr. Trump’s immigration executive order, as closing its doors in a way it never did even after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. Twenty years of stop-and-go efforts to rebuild a relationship with Mexico — on trade, counterterrorism and drug interdiction — crashed into an avoidable blowup with the Mexican president, Enrique Peña Nieto, who canceled his visit here.When Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain came for what appeared to be a largely successful visit, Mr. Trump’s first by the leader of a close ally, she spoke of maintaining sanctions on Russia until it met its commitments on Ukraine. Mr. Trump stayed silent. After he spoke the next day to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, the official readout provided by the White House made no mention of Ukraine, or of the information-warfare operation to influence the American election that led President Barack Obama, in his last days in office, to issue new sanctions.Perception is different from reality. It is possible that when viewed from a distance of a few years, Mr. Trump’s pronouncements about “extreme vetting” and his rush to push some of America’s most experienced career diplomats out of their jobs will look like a first-week blitz intended to send a message to the world that he meant what he said when he talked about “America First.”In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Trump appeared to try to soften his action, arguing that “this is not a Muslim ban, as the media is falsely reporting.” He promised to “find ways to help all those who are suffering,” words that were missing on Friday when he announced that all refugees from Syria would be barred from entry to the United States, indefinitely.“It’s one week in,” Robert M. Gates, the former secretary of defense and C.I.A. director, said on ABC’s “This Week” on Sunday. “Every administration I’ve worked for begins with a flurry of executive orders” meant to distinguish itself from it predecessor.But Mr. Gates, who has served eight presidents, of both parties, quickly added that Mr. Trump risks accelerating a sense of an America that is pulling back and putting up walls, leaving a power vacuum around the globe.“That vacuum will not be filled by benign forces,” he said. Two other prominent, establishment Republicans, Senators John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, called the lumping together in the immigration order of a major adversary, Iran, with an ally, Iraq, one of many reason that the moves are “a self-inflicted wound in the fight against terrorism.”Mr. Trump is hardly the first president to announce shifts in policy that surprised allies and upturned the existing order. President Richard M. Nixon’s decision to abandon the gold standard and to recognize China were shocks to the system. So was President George W. Bush’s decision to invade Iraq, though it was telegraphed for more than a year, as was Mr. Obama’s decision to strike a nuclear accord with Iran and to reopen diplomatic relations with Cuba.But in the case of Mr. Trump, there is a sense that the rush for change has superseded a study of unintended consequences.The ban on immigration and visitors from seven nations came with minimal, if any, input from the State Department about the regional fallout — as did Mr. Trump’s declaration that he intends to move the American Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. The absence of advance thinking about how to deal with green card holders and Iraqi interpreters who were promised entry to the United States in return for their service to American troops forced the White House to amend its interpretations of the order less than 48 hours after Mr. Trump signed it.It was all symptomatic of a new president eager to tweet first and work out details later. “This is policy by thunderbolt,” said Joseph Nye, a Harvard professor who served as the head of the National Intelligence Council and has written extensively on how the United States can gain leverage from its “soft power” — the attractiveness of its culture and democracy. “You don’t want to tear up 70 years of foreign policy until you think hard about what replaces it.”But inside the halls of the State Department, where Rex W. Tillerson, the pick for secretary of state, has just begun to find his way around, there is definitely the sense among career diplomats that this is Year Zero.Last week, the “landing team” of Trump designees told several of the department’s most senior diplomats — career officials, some with decades of service — to clear out of their offices. Almost all had submitted their resignations, the protocol when administrations changed, but had volunteered to stay on for a month or two until successors were appointed, to ensure that State Department facilities were safe, American citizens were evacuated from perilous places and passports were issued.The Trump team made it clear it had no interest in transitions. (Mr. Tillerson also never met one-on-one with his predecessor, John Kerry, before the inauguration.)It was not exactly a purge, but the fact remains that some of the government’s most experienced diplomats have moved on — including some of the highest-ranking women in the department. Among them is Anne Patterson, 67, the assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern affairs and a former ambassador to Pakistan and Egypt, two of the biggest tinderboxes Mr. Trump will face. Victoria J. Nuland, 55, one of the department’s top Russia experts and former ambassador to NATO, who dealt with the Ukraine crisis, decided to retire after concluding there was probably no place for her in Mr. Trump’s administration.Such a housecleaning leaves open the question of whether Mr. Tillerson, who has extensive experience abroad as chief executive of Exxon Mobil but none as a diplomat, will have the kind of help he needs in a very different kind of enterprise than negotiating on behalf of the world’s largest oil company.In such an atmosphere, even seemingly routine moves — like the reorganization of the National Security Council — take on a political air. On Sunday, Mr. Trump’s chief strategist, and chief ideologue, Stephen K. Bannon, was designated a permanent member of the “principals committee” of the National Security Council, putting a political aide on par with the secretaries of state and defense. Meanwhile, the director of national intelligence and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff appeared to be downgraded, told to attend only when their issues were on the table.“This is stone cold crazy,” Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser until earlier this month, wrote in a Twitter post. “Who needs military advice or intell to make policy on ISIL, Syria, Afghanistan, DPRK?” she said, using acronyms for the Islamic State and North Korea.Mr. Trump’s answer is simple: When you have come to upend the establishment, the establishment must vacate the premises.
NEW DELHI — Trying to spur an Indian economy hard hit by its cash shortage, the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled plans on Wednesday for next year’s budget that would significantly increase spending on infrastructure, rural areas and antipoverty programs.The budget plan was presented by the minister of finance, Arun Jaitley, in a highly anticipated annual ritual. It included tax cuts for lower income taxpayers and small businesses, even as it came close to sticking with the country’s target for reducing its budget deficit.“With this gradual approach, I’ve ensured adherence to fiscal consolidation without compromising investment,” Mr. Jaitley said in a two-hour speech before the Indian Parliament.The budget presentation came as five states in India prepare to go to the polls beginning Feb. 4th, including India’s largest state of Uttar Pradesh. The prime minister is hoping to win that state to gain control over the upper house of Parliament, demonstrating strength in advance of national elections in 2019.His budget plan received mostly positive responses for taking measures to increase consumer demand and jobs while still adhering largely to the deficit plan. It calls for reducing the deficit to 3.2 percent of G.D.P. for next year from 3.5 percent in the current fiscal year, a bit short of the government’s previously stated target of 3 percent.“The economy needs the spending to give consumption a boost, but the government is also giving weight to fiscal prudence,” said Dharmakirti Joshi, chief economist at Crisil Ltd., an Indian credit rating agency.Mr. Jaitley said his budget had increased capital investment by about 25 percent and raised rural and farm spending by 24 percent.The budget also cuts income taxes to 5 percent from 10 percent for people making between $3,700 and $7,400 annually. But he imposed a 10 percent surcharge on higher-income taxpayers.Small businesses with annual revenue of up to $7.5 million — 96 percent of Indian businesses — would see their tax rates cut to 25 percent from 30 percent, Mr. Jaitley said.Much of the spending in rural areas will go to building roads, with the aim of increasing efficiency and access to markets while providing jobs, Mr. Joshi said. The budget also substantially increased India’s expenditure on its rural employment program, to $710 million, the highest ever.The budget also included plans for campaign finance reform. Mr. Modi is expected to propose additional changes to bolster his attack on “black money,” or currency on which taxes had not been paid, which began when he announced a ban on the country’s largest currency notes in November.Campaign finance is viewed as one of the main drivers of corruption, with a recent study showing that nearly 70 percent of contributions to political parties come from undisclosed sources.Current laws do not require parties to report the sources of contributions of less than 20,000 rupees, or about $300. Mr. Jaitley’s plan would reduce that to 2,000 rupees, or about $30.However, one activist, Jagdeep Chhokar, a founding member of the Association for Democratic Reforms, a nonprofit organization, dismissed the change as ineffectual, saying donors would simply slice contributions into $30 pieces. To achieve transparency, he said, the government will have to proscribe cash contributions entirely, instead requiring they be made digitally so they can be traced.But the main thrust of the government budget on Wednesday was to try to help the economy, which has been hurt by Mr. Modi’s cash ban, by most accounts. The International Monetary Fund cut its predicted growth rate for India by one percentage point this year to 6.6 percent, in large part because of the currency ban.The tax cuts for the middle class and spending increases in rural areas, where most Indians still reside, would help boost discretionary spending that had suffered after the currency ban, said Deepak Parekh, the chairman of Housing Development Finance Corporation, one of India’s largest mortgage lenders.”It is extremely well thought-out,” Mr. Parekh said of the budget, in a telephone interview, crediting the government with being “frank enough to say the economy has taken a hit” and proactive enough to provide a needed spending boost.Mr. Joshi said the government’s budget, if executed well, could help restore some of the jobs lost. In addition to plans to increase capital spending, Mr. Modi’s budget plan aims to build 10 million new affordable homes for the poor in rural areas by 2019.“The jobless will get support if these programs are executed well,” he said.
Sean Sweeney opened the door to the refurbished 1839 barn behind his home in Wayne, Pa., outside of Philadelphia. Inside, one bicycle after another hung from hooks screwed into a beefy ceiling beam: Mr. Sweeney’s triathlon bike, road bike and two mountain bikes dangled alongside four bikes belonging to his wife and one of his three daughters. Mr. Sweeney races often, and the whole family competes in triathlons.The 59-year-old Mr. Sweeney, a strategic adviser for the Tokio Marine insurance companies, always hated hauling the bikes to a local shop to be tuned up and repaired. “I have to carry that big thing right there,” he said, gesturing toward a bicycle rack for his car. “I have to load it; it smacks my legs. My wife and kids, they all hate doing it, and we all put it off.”On this day, however, Mr. Sweeney only had to point to the bike he wanted repaired — a Trek hardtail mountain bike with a few mysterious squeaks after a recent race — and the work was underway. Seth Samson, a bicycle mechanic for a company called Velofix, rolled the bike into a large red van parked in Mr. Sweeney’s driveway, clipped it to a stand and started taking it apart.As Mr. Samson worked, Mr. Sweeney asked him about a bike he wanted to buy, a light and fast off-road bike he thought would give him an advantage in a race. The bike would be bought through this Velofix franchise, part of a Canadian mobile bike shop company, and Mr. Samson would deliver it to his door, assembled and ready to ride.“The fact that these guys come here to me is a home run,” Mr. Sweeney said.Velofix has over 80 franchises in Canada and the United States. The one Mr. Samson works for is owned by Justin Brundage, 46, an avid cyclist who also has a job at a financial services firm. Mr. Brundage leased two territories in the Philadelphia area.Working with Velofix, Mr. Brundage purchased the oversize Mercedes diesel van, which was wrapped in the red, white and black Velofix logo and outfitted with a bike stand, tools and tool cases, trays of parts as well as accessories like glasses, gloves and water bottles. Velofix also contracts with about a dozen bike manufacturers to assemble and deliver bikes purchased online through the manufacturers’ websites.It isn’t the only company taking this approach: Beeline Bikes in California also offers mobile bike-repair franchises.This is just one of several changes coming to an industry that has resisted many of the innovations that have altered others over the last 15 years. Some smaller bike companies have sold their bikes online for some time, but now the industry’s largest manufacturers are offering bikes directly to consumers via their web pages.All of this presents the possibility of better service and perhaps even lower prices for consumers. But it has also raised concerns for the future of the neighborhood bike shop. The bicycle industry has hardly been a bastion of health. Since 2000, about 40 percent of bike shops have closed or have been consolidated by larger chains. Bike sales have remained essentially flat over the same time.Some of the problem lies with the big bike manufacturers, said Todd Grant, the executive director of the National Bicycle Dealers Association, which represents independent bike shops. The biggest companies provide incentives for shops to carry their brands; generally, if 60 percent or more of a shop’s inventory is from a single top-selling brand, the store will get better terms on its credit. (Bikes are usually supplied upfront and paid off later.)These shops can have a hard time making room for small, innovative companies that may interest more cyclists. “It squashes innovation,” Mr. Grant said. “They can’t get their brands in the door. No one rides it or learns about it.”Eric Bjorling, a spokesman for the Trek Bicycle Corporation, said that his company offers such incentives but that shops determine what brands to carry. The incentives help Trek better manage its inventory and supply chain, he said, adding, “The biggest thing is to help retailers run a great business and create a great brand.”Many smaller companies have been relegated to the margins. Brad Accettella, the director of Eddy Merckx Cycles USA, said that to appeal to retailers, his company offers competitive credit terms even if shops order only a small number of bikes.Even Raleigh bicycles, the fifth-best-selling brand in the United States, was shut out of many stores, said Chris Speyer, the managing director for Accell North America, which owns the Raleigh and Diamondback brands. Raleigh used to encourage shops to carry its bikes and accessories, but it recently dropped those incentives. “It was not healthy for anyone anymore,” Mr. Speyer said. “It was more like the mortgage crisis than a proper retail relationship.”Many smaller manufacturers work with major online retailers like Competitive Cyclist, which was acquired by the online outdoor gear retailer Backcountry in 2011. Jonathan Nielsen, Backcountry’s C.E.O., said the big bicycle manufacturers were resistant to both companies’ online sales models as late as 2008 and 2009, when Backcountry first entered the cycling market. So it began carrying bikes from smaller manufacturers like Santa Cruz Bicycles and Yeti Cycles. That helped those companies reach new customers and increase sales outside of bike shops. As the brands became more successful, shops began to pick them up, too.“We can showcase really innovative stuff,” Mr. Nielsen said. “Our customers have come to expect that.”Buying a bicycle online is not as simple as buying a T-shirt. High-end bikes, which can cost well over $5,000, come in as many as 10 sizes. Buyers choose from frames made of carbon fiber, certain types of steel or other metals. There are single-speed, fixed-gear, road, time-trial, cyclocross, hybrid, commuter and many types of mountain bikes. Bike shops have long helped cyclists find the right fit.Charles McCorkell, who owns Bicycle Habitat, which has two stores in Brooklyn and two in Manhattan, is part of Trek’s direct-to-consumer sales program. Customers choose a bike on Trek’s website, pay for it and pick a shop to receive it. (Trek, like most major manufacturers, will not send the bike directly to consumers). Trek sends the bike to the store, where it is assembled for the customer, who must pick it up in person.Of the 15 Trek orders Mr. McCorkell has received this way, about five turned out to be the wrong size or bike for the customer, he said. That presents a problem because the bike is not part of the shop’s inventory, and the store earns much less on these sales. Mr. McCorkell said that so far he has been able to return the bike and get the customer another Trek bike. Mr. Bjorling said Trek was improving the consumer education portion of its website to help its customers make better choices.In an industry looking for ways to reach out to consumers who are accustomed to buying online, this model is only growing. Beeline Bikes assembles and delivers bikes bought on Raleigh’s and Diamondback’s websites as well as those bought through Backcountry and Competitive Cyclist. (Accell and Backcountry are investors in Beeline.) Velofix, which has similar arrangements with about a dozen small brands, including Eddy Merckx, will also help fit customers to a bike before they order one. Beeline and Velofix also provide services for bikes bought on Amazon.Manufacturers like that customers have a point of contact with a certified mechanic for repairs and adjustments. The convenience of receiving that service at home is an added bonus. But in an effort to avoid undercutting local shops, most companies do not discount bikes when they sell them directly; in fact, buyers may find better prices in their local shop.Many bike shops are already reacting to these changes. Richardson Bike Mart, a three-store chain in the Dallas area, started its own mobile repair service. Though many shop owners worry that such a service could cannibalize their business, that has not been the case, said the store’s owner, Woody Smith. So far, 65 percent of his mobile repair customers are new.Even in traffic-clogged New York City, Mr. McCorkell of Bicycle Habitat has looked into getting his own repair van because, he said, he knows he cannot be complacent.“The change in the outside world is profound,” he said. “We haven’t been as affected by the internet as bookstores and record stores, but it is coming.”
In 2011, I knew something was wrong at work. I was a client services manager at Google, and I was miserable. My “think about work” mental switch was permanently on, and I couldn’t find the off switch. I was constantly thinking about the next email to send, or on my laptop or phone tackling my to-do list. I would be out with friends, and while everyone else was engaged in conversation, I was lost in my own world, missing everything.Although I was burned out, I thought I was doing a good job. My manager felt otherwise and tried to give me constructive feedback. But my ego just wouldn’t allow me to hear what she was saying.Finally, my manager took me aside one day and said: “You are not a fit for this role. You should think about what’s next for you.”You might think that this story ended with me leaving the company. But fortunately, Google is one of a minority of companies that offer unpaid leaves of absence not related to family or medical issues. After my manager’s accurate appraisal, I put together a case for the company to allow me a three-month leave.The leave — or pause, as I came to call it — allowed me to reassess my path and take stock of my strengths and my goals. I returned to Google three months later with a new job and a new outlook.Detaching from work is one way to pause, but pausing is also a change in mind-set. I define a pause as any intentional shift in behavior.My experience with taking a career pause made me realize how valuable it can be for both employers and employees. Currently, a parenting leave is one of the few times a worker may take extended time away from a job. Why should only parents have this opportunity?I happen to have no children. I think leaves should be available for parents and nonparents, and for the purpose of clarifying your career goals. The academic world — and some corporations — have embraced the concept of sabbaticals, and I hope more companies recognize how important they are in helping their workers thrive.During my pause, I took a few small vacations, but otherwise I didn’t do all that much — at least in terms of tackling big outside projects. I did create some rules so that my days would be sure to have structure. Untethered from the corporate world, it would have been all too easy for me to fall into aimlessness.So I made it a requirement to shower once a day, make my bed and get out of the house by 10 a.m. I also had to spend at least an hour a day outside the house doing something I enjoyed, like yoga or hiking. And I made sure to spend no more than 30 minutes at a time on my computer. Taking these simple steps enabled me to clear my head and become more sure of who I really was. I achieved a level of introspection that simply would not have been possible while dealing with the daily urgencies of the office.According to a survey by the nonprofit Families and Work Institute last year, more than half of American employees “feel overworked or overwhelmed at least some of the time,” and “70 percent say they often dream of having a different job.” I am convinced that giving employees a chance to take a pause would greatly reduce these numbers.People who take sabbaticals not only experience a decline in stress while on leave, but they also find that their stress declines after returning to work (compared with their stress levels before they left), according to research cited in Fortune.Given the benefits of taking unpaid leaves, why don’t more companies offer them? My sense is that, in addition to the inconvenience that might result, companies are afraid they will lose more employees permanently. In fact, unpaid leaves are a way to attract and retain talent. Companies can offer this coveted perk and have happier, more satisfied employees who know they are trusted to return. This leads to increased company loyalty, good will, engagement and reduced turnover.Some people will inevitably choose not to return to work after a pause. This may not be such a bad thing and may even be a blessing in disguise that allows someone to pursue a new opportunity that might otherwise not have occurred.Pauses bring employees a renewed sense of purpose and alignment. Exploring new interests or lifelong passions, taking a class, or spending time with family that otherwise wouldn’t happen are all big payoffs. Employees can reflect on what matters in life and take action to align their behavior with that. Employees end up feeling refreshed and rejuvenated — a feeling that is likely to have a ripple effect on their job and their co-workers when they return.New leadership and growth opportunities emerge from these pauses. Newer or less experienced employees can fill interim roles and learn new skills. This leads to more fully engaged team members, which leads to greater flexibility and adaptability across a team or company.Once you return to work after a leave, you can incorporate pauses into your day-to-day working life, by going outside and taking a walk, for example. I believe workers could benefit from picking a time of day for a “digital device pause” — where they intentionally disconnect from any technology. In today’s always-on and connected world, it is too easy to get caught in the spin cycle of never-ending to-dos. Whether it is for a few minutes or a year, pausing is one way we can take a step back before moving forward again.
TEHRAN — Iran confirmed on Wednesday that it recently conducted a missile test, but it rejected accusations from the United States that the launch had violated a United Nations Security Council resolution.The confirmation by the defense minister, Hossein Dehghan, was the first by an Iranian official since the country was accused of violating the 2015 resolution because the test involved a ballistic missile that could theoretically carry a nuclear warhead.The remarks came a day after President Hassan Rouhani disparaged President Trump for his immigration order barring refugees, as well as citizens of seven predominantly-Muslim countries including Iran.“Banning visas for other nations is the act of newcomers to the political scene,” Mr. Rouhani said.Mr. Dehghan emphasized that the missile test did not, in Iran’s view, violate the terms of the resolution, nor those of the 2015 nuclear agreement that preceded it.No country will be allowed to interfere in Iranian domestic affairs, he said, adding that tests would definitely continue.“Our nation has tested itself in this path,” Mr. Dehghan said, adding that the world had “tested us” and that “these statements and measures cannot affect the will of our nation.”Mr. Trump has repeatedly described the 2015 nuclear agreement, reached with the United States and other countries, as “a very bad deal,” and many of his advisers have argued in speeches and books that Iran is the biggest threat to American interests.“You’re going to see us call them out as we said we would, and you are also going to see us act accordingly,” Nikki R. Haley, the new United States ambassador to the United Nations, said on Tuesday.The United States called an urgent meeting of the Security Council on Tuesday to discuss the matter.Iran does not have a modern fleet of fighter jets, but it has tried to compensate in recent decades by building an extensive defense program, with missiles able to strike Israel and Southern and Eastern Europe.It has denied that its missiles can carry nuclear warheads, a view that has been supported by the International Atomic Energy Agency, which monitors parts of the execution of the nuclear agreement.
WASHINGTON — Iran conducted its first missile test since President Trump took office, American and Israeli officials said Monday, posing an early test of whether the Trump administration will make good on its promises to strictly enforce all aspects of the Iranian nuclear deal and a side agreement on missile testing.The Iranian missile traveled about 600 miles, but its re-entry vehicle reportedly exploded before the flight was complete. It is unclear whether that was accidental or a deliberate detonation.Israel’s United Nations ambassador, Danny Danon, accused Iran of violating a Security Council resolution passed in 2015, shortly after the nuclear accord was reached in Vienna.While the agreement itself dealt only with Iran’s nuclear program, then-Secretary of State John Kerry negotiated for days with the Iranians about a revised Security Council resolution on missiles. That last concession by the United States, China, Russia, Germany and France sealed the entire diplomatic package.The previous United Nations resolution had specifically prohibited such tests, with wording the Iranians were eager to jettison. Under the new resolution, Iran was “called upon not to undertake any activity related to ballistic missiles designed to be capable of delivering nuclear weapons, including launches using such ballistic missile technology.”Iran has said that because it does not have a nuclear weapons program, its missiles are not designed to be able to deliver nuclear warheads.At the White House on Monday, Sean Spicer, the press secretary, acknowledged that the missile launch had taken place but said nothing about how the new administration would react.“We’re aware that Iran fired that missile,” he said. “We’re looking into the exact nature of it.”During the campaign, Mr. Trump often condemned the nuclear deal and at times conflated Iran’s nuclear program and its missile program.Inside the administration, there seems to be little appetite now to tear up the 2015 agreement, despite Mr. Trump’s criticism of it. The new defense secretary, Jim Mattis, said during his confirmation hearing that while he wished the accord would prohibit Iranian nuclear activity for longer than it does, the world was safer with the agreement.The missile launch opens up new possibilities for the administration: It could join Israel in seeking new sanctions that are missile-related, steering clear of the core nuclear deal. But it is unclear whether there is any desire for that in the European Union, China or Russia, all signatories to the accord.
UNITED NATIONS — Already furious over President Trump’s visa ban, Iran warned the United States on Tuesday not to escalate tensions over tests of Iranian missiles — tests that his administration’s new United Nations ambassador called “absolutely unacceptable.”The Iranian warning, made in Tehran by Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif, came a day after American and Israeli officials accused Iran of having conducted a missile test that they said had violated a United Nations Security Council resolution.The United States called an urgent meeting of the Council on Tuesday to discuss the grievance, making Iran the subject of the first diplomatic skirmish at the United Nations by Nikki R. Haley, the former governor of South Carolina who is Mr. Trump’s new ambassador.“The United States is not naïve,” she told reporters after the closed meeting. “We’re not going to stand by. You’re going to see us call them out as we said we would, and you are also going to see us act accordingly.”Ms. Haley took no questions after her Security Council debut and proposed nothing concrete. The council agreed to refer the issue to its own sanctions committee for further inquiry, which is what it did last year after the last missile test by Iran.Iran has not confirmed that it conducted a test. But Mr. Zarif, at a joint news conference in Tehran with his visiting counterpart from France, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said he hoped that the new American administration would not use Iran’s military defenses “as a pretext to create new tensions.”When the nuclear deal with Iran was reached in 2015 with major powers including the United States, they agreed sanctions on Iran would be relaxed in exchange for its verifiable pledges of peaceful nuclear work. A Security Council resolution “called upon” Iran not to undertake any tests of missiles designed to be capable of carrying nuclear warheads.Iran contends that it has not violated the resolution and that its missiles are not designed to carry nuclear warheads — which it already has promised not to make as part of the nuclear accord.Nonetheless, the American and Israeli accusations have created what amounts to an early test of the Trump administration’s toughness on Iran. During the presidential election campaign, Mr. Trump denounced the nuclear agreement and sometimes conflated it with the Iranian missile program.Arms control experts have cautioned that Iran’s missile tests are not prohibited under the nuclear accord.Ms. Haley used tough words about such tests but did not say whether her administration regarded them as a violation of the accord.“We have said with this administration that we are not going to show a blind eye to these things that happen,” she said. “We’re going to act. We’re going to be strong. We’re going to be loud and we’re going to do whatever it takes to protect the American people and the people across the world.”Iran’s United Nations mission added to Mr. Zarif’s warning, issuing a Foreign Ministry statement asserting that Iranian ballistic missiles are “exclusively for legitimate defense.”The statement said missile tests “are an integral component” of Iran’s self-defense and that “we reject politically motivated comments regarding Iran’s missile program.”Mr. Zarif also used the news conference on Tuesday to emphasize Iran’s anger over the Trump administration’s executive order on Friday suspending refugee admissions and prohibiting the issuance of visas to Iran and six other majority-Muslim countries. Mr. Zarif called the order “a shameful act.”The order has upended the lives of thousands of Iranians, who are by far the largest population affected among the seven countries, which also include Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. Iran’s government has pledged a reciprocal response to the order.Mr. Ayrault told reporters at the news conference that France had “expressed its concern” over Iran’s missile tests, according to an account by Agence France-Presse.Earlier, upon Mr. Ayrault’s arrival in Tehran, Iranian news media quoted him as saying the Trump administration’s order on refugees and visas amounted to “discrimination” and should be revoked.
TEHRAN — The Iranian director Asghar Farhadi, whose film “The Salesman” is nominated for an Academy Award for best foreign-language movie, said on Sunday that he would not attend the Oscars ceremony next month even if he were granted an exception to President Trump’s visa ban for citizens from Iran and several other predominantly Muslim countries.Mr. Farhadi said he had planned to attend the Feb. 26 ceremony in Los Angeles and while there bring attention to a decision he called “unjust.” But the executive order signed by President Trump on Friday presented “ifs and buts which are in no way acceptable to me even if exceptions were to be made for my trip,” he said in a statement to The New York Times.The executive order blocked entry into the United States for 90 days for citizens of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. It also suspended entry of all refugees for 120 days and barred Syrian refugees indefinitely.Here is Mr. Farhadi’s statement:
If an online travel agency had not temporarily blocked a credit card payment, forcing him to rebook a later flight, Hameed Khalid Darweesh probably would have landed at Kennedy International Airport in New York before President Trump signed his executive order restricting refugees and immigrants from predominantly Muslim countries.Instead, the Iraqi immigrant, who worked with the United States military and government for a decade at great personal risk, watched as his wife and three children disappeared into the main part of the arrivals terminal early on Friday evening. Instead of being allowed to accompany them, Mr. Darweesh found himself detained overnight — at times handcuffed — and unsure if he would be returned to Iraq, the country he had fled in fear for his life.“We have a moral obligation to protect and repay these people who risked their lives for U.S. troops,” said Brandon Friedman, who, as an infantry lieutenant with the 101st Airborne Division, worked with Mr. Darweesh in Iraq. Mr. Friedman later served in the Obama administration at both the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Housing and Urban Development.“There are not many Americans who have done as much for this country as he has,” Mr. Friedman added. “He’s put himself on the line. He’s put his family on the line to help U.S. soldiers in combat, and it is astonishing to me that this country would suddenly not allow people like that in.”Mr. Darweesh’s luck would turn in the midst of a chaotic day for United States Customs and Border Protection. Thanks to a handful of immigration lawyers who spent the darkest hours of Saturday morning writing motions and wheedling information from immigration officials, Mr. Darweesh was released in the early afternoon after spending nearly 19 hours in detention. The intercession of two Democratic representatives from New York — Jerrold Nadler and Nydia M. Velázquez — surely helped clear the way.Outside the terminal, Mr. Darweesh was greeted by his advocates, as well as protesters opposed to the Trump policy who had come to the airport to support him and the others who had been detained.Though shaken, Mr. Darweesh paused to speak to the media before moving on to reunite with his family. A reporter asked if he was angry. “No, because I have these people,” he said, gripping his lawyer’s shoulder. “This is America.”Yet the knowledge that at least 10 other people remained in detention here, as well as many others at other airports around the country, dulled the celebration.“These people were in the air with valid visas,” Mr. Nadler said. “I don’t think people are going to be getting on planes now.”Mr. Friedman said the new policy made him fear for America’s military.“This not only endangers troops in the future, it endangers troops who are in combat now in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, wherever,” he said. “If those interpreters and those fixers hear that the United States is not going to protect them, then they don’t have any incentive to work with U.S. troops, and there’s no way that we can operate without their support and assistance.”
New York Times journalists are in the field in central and northern Iraq to assess the humanitarian impact of battles between the government and Islamic State fighters.TIKRIT, Iraq — Udbais Musa says he punched his son and threatened to disown him when the 19-year-old announced last year that he was leaving home to join the Islamic State.Ultimately, Mr. Musa lost both his son and his house.To punish the son, Iraqi security forces evicted Mr. Musa and his family from their home on Tikrit’s outskirts on Jan. 4. He said they had been transported by military truck to a windswept displaced persons camp with only the clothes they were wearing and a few tattered personal papers.Under a new collective punishment policy by the provincial government here, at least 345 families accused of ties to the Islamic State have been evicted and confined to Al Shahama camp outside Tikrit this month, according to provincial leaders. Officials said about 200 other families had been evicted and held in a school and at a separate camp called Rubaidha.Mr. Musa, 60, now shares a blue-and-white tent with nine family members whose only crime was to have a relative who had joined the Islamic State, also known as ISIS, ISIL or Daesh.Several women evicted from their homes and trucked to the Shahama camp said Iraqi security forces demolished their houses with explosives after accusing their sons or husbands of joining the terrorist group.The authorities of Salahuddin Province say the punishment against the families of ISIS members is intended to force the group’s recruits to pay a painful personal price.“Our aim is to defy the terrorists and send a stern message to the families,” Amar Hekmat, the deputy governor, said inside the barricaded provincial government center.But the evictions have set off a rancorous dispute between officials in Tikrit and politicians in Baghdad. Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, in a letter to the provincial governor last week, sharply criticized the removals and ordered provincial and Baghdad officials to resolve the issue.The tensions raised by the Salahuddin officials’ actions cut to the heart of sectarian grievances across the whole country, where tens of thousands of Sunni families have been displaced either by the Islamic State or by government offensives against the group. Even as Mr. Abadi’s national government has tried to address reports of abuses by the Shiite-dominated security forces and their militia allies, deep distrust persists in Iraq’s Sunni communities.In an interview, Mishan al-Jiboori, a member of Parliament from Salahuddin Province, accused the provincial security commander of human rights violations against “the innocent and the repressed.”The Salahuddin operations commander, Brig. Gen. Juma Enad Sadoon, called critics like Mr. Jiboori “barking dogs and mercenaries” and said they should not interfere in security matters in Tikrit. In an interview, General Sadoon did not indicate whether the removals would be halted.The evictions have evoked unwelcome comparisons to collective punishments, including home demolitions, imposed by Israel against families of Palestinians accused of attacks. Collective punishment is prohibited under the Third and Fourth Geneva Conventions and is generally considered illegal under international law.Officials in Tikrit cited extraordinary security concerns for the evictions.“This is a very difficult situation for us because of the terrible suffering caused by Daesh,” Mr. Hekmat said. “We are under great pressure to rebuild our city and impose civil order” after almost a year under Islamic State occupation in 2014 and 2015, he said.Khazhal Hamad, the province’s first deputy governor, said the removals protected families from retaliation by neighbors who lost family members to ISIS attacks. “There are hostile feelings toward these people, and these feelings can affect the civil peace we are trying to achieve,” Mr. Hamad said.The Tikrit evictions are perhaps a prelude to postcombat frictions in the city of Mosul, 140 miles north, if government forces can uproot Islamic State forces there.Tikrit is a potent symbol of Sunni dominion in central Iraq. Saddam Hussein was born in Awja, just outside Tikrit, and his palaces still tower over the landscape here. Yet Shiite Muslim militias, backed by Iran and known as popular mobilization forces, led the charge to evict the Islamic State from the city in April 2015.The main highway into Tikrit is now festooned with posters featuring the faces of Shiite militiamen killed in battle and images of the revered Shiite imams Hussein and Ali. Some of the posters are mounted next to Iraqi government military compounds.But local Sunni militiamen, along with Iraqi security forces, have themselves carried out some of the evictions — all targeting Sunnis. Thousands of Sunni tribal fighters had joined the fight against ISIS in Tikrit.Today, pockets of Islamic State fighters remain in Tikrit districts west of the Tigris River. Security officials said the small militant cells occasionally fired mortars from Sunni neighborhoods where many of the evictions have occurred.Hussein Ahmed Khalaf, director of the Shahama camp, said none of the 345 evicted families — 1,111 people — had been permitted to return home. All will undergo security screenings to determine their fates, he said.Several of those evicted said security forces had confiscated their cellphones and interrogated them about family members’ ties to the Islamic State. They said they had not been told when, or whether, they would be allowed to return home.Several acknowledged that fathers or sons had joined ISIS, but they insisted that they supported the Iraqi government. They said their children had been removed from school and compelled to endure a harsh existence in the forlorn Shahama camp.“What is the guilt of my children? They don’t know anything about Daesh,” said Eman Khalil Hamad, 34. She said she and her seven children had been evicted and their five-room home demolished to punish her husband, an Islamic State fighter she said she had not seen for months.Ms. Hamad said the family had suffered under the Islamic State’s harsh social codes. But now, she said, she was abused by security forces who slapped and insulted her as she was forced onto a military truck this month.Hussein al-Gibory, 55, a Sunni Muslim tribal sheikh and a commander of a Sunni militia force that helped restore Tikrit to government control, said collective punishment was counterproductive.“It will only turn people away from the government and strengthen Daesh,” said Mr. Gibory, who wore combat fatigues with military insignia of the popular mobilization forces — the collective name for militia forces in Iraq.He said authorities should use “social rehabilitation” to convince families of Islamic State members that “Daesh is more dangerous than a nuclear bomb.”“We are tribal people,” Mr. Gibory said. “We should turn to dialogue rather than dragging women and children from their homes.”Mr. Musa, the father of the ISIS fighter, said he felt betrayed by his government. He said he had alerted the tribal sheikh in his village, on Tikrit’s west side, after his son joined the group, and disavowed both his son and the Islamic State.The sheikh signed and stamped a letter attesting to Mr. Musa’s innocence. But the security forces who evicted him refused to read the document, Mr. Musa said, clutching the worn letter inside his camp tent.Hadia Ibrahim, 44, a mother of 11 children, said two of her sons — one an Iraqi police officer — had been killed by the Islamic State. But she said she and her four daughters were now confined to the Shahama camp after her husband joined ISIS in 2014, she said.When security forces descended on her home three weeks ago, Ms. Ibrahim said, they told her, “You are the family of Daesh — leave!”Mr. Hamad, the first deputy governor, said evicted families ultimately might be moved to other areas, or even other provinces. “That is to be determined by security agencies,” he said.Some families with Islamic State relatives have fled Salahuddin Province altogether to avoid evictions, Mr. Hamad said.“Those people,” he said, “will never be allowed to come back.”
SANA, Yemen — Nine months of war between a Saudi-led military coalition and a Yemeni rebel group have left thousands of civilians dead, a nation gravely polarized and the land strewn with debris, mines and unexploded bombs.The conflict has produced another bitter legacy: a new branch of the Islamic State that has quietly grown in strength and appears determined to distinguish itself as Yemen’s most disruptive and brutal force, carrying out attacks considered too extreme even by the country’s branch of Al Qaeda.The Islamic State’s deadliest assaults, on mosques here in the capital, killed more than 130 people and helped start Yemen’s civil war in March. In recent weeks, the group has carried out powerful car bombings in southern Yemen and released videos filled with grisly executions and sectarian denunciations of Yemen’s Shiite minority. The violence has raised tensions before United Nations-brokered negotiations to end the conflict, scheduled to begin this week in Geneva, as well as a cease-fire announced by the Saudi-led coalition that is set to begin Tuesday.Like Islamic State affiliates in Egypt and Libya, the Yemeni group has shown signs it is more closely coordinating its activities with the headquarters in Syria, analysts said. And its emergence has only added to the peril from Sunni extremism in Yemen, already home to a powerful branch of Al Qaeda that has been able to seize territory during the latest conflict, including Al Mukalla, the country’s fifth-largest city.American intelligence and counterterrorism analysts say the Qaeda affiliate, Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, remains the most urgent militant threat in this fractured country. But they are closely watching the effort by the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, to peel off defectors from Al Qaeda’s wing here.“The pace of its attacks and declarations of new provinces during the past year underscores the group’s ambitions in Yemen,” said an American counterterrorism official, referring to the Islamic State. “While some may not consider ISIL’s Yemen affiliate to be as worrying as the group’s other hubs, there are a number of factors that indicate the branch should be taken seriously in the long term.”An analyst in Yemen who closely follows Sunni extremist groups in the country said the scale of the attacks by the Islamic State showed that it was becoming just as dangerous as Al Qaeda. At the start of Yemen’s civil war, the Islamic State’s presence was “limited,” said the analyst, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of the hazards of talking openly about the group.As the war has spread across Yemen and the violence intensifies, the group’s “recruiting circle is expanding,” he added.The Saudi-led coalition said on Monday that its forces would cease fighting for seven days, beginning on Tuesday, in order to “create the atmosphere for the success” of the negotiations in Geneva, according to a statement carried by the official Saudi news agency. Past cease-fires during the war have been marred by violations and frequently led to an escalation of the fighting.Both the Islamic State and Al Qaeda have profited from a security vacuum while trying to rally Yemen’s Sunnis against the Shiite-led rebels, known as the Houthis, who are from the north, analysts say. Crucially, the groups have both faced little or no resistance from the Saudi-led coalition and its allies, which are focused on defeating the Houthis. The coalition receives backing from the United States and Britain.This month, Qaeda militants were able to capture two towns in southern Yemen with little effort, residents said. In some cities, including Aden and Taiz, small numbers of hard-line Sunni militants continue to fight alongside the Saudis and their allies.At the same time, Yemeni officials with the government of President Abdu Rabbu Mansour Hadi, which is backed by the Saudi-led coalition, have appeared to underestimate the threat posed by the Islamic State — or even deny its existence.Last week, when the Islamic State claimed responsibility for killing the provincial governor of Aden and eight of his bodyguards with a car bomb — releasing both a statement and photographs of the attack — the city’s security director, Mohamed Mousaed, insisted that “remnants of the Houthis and Saleh” had carried out the bombing. Yemen’s former president Ali Abdullah Saleh is allied with the rebels.Nadwa al-Dawsari, a Yemeni analyst and nonresident fellow at the Project on Middle East Democracy in Washington, said there was a widespread perception in southern Yemen that the threat from the Islamic State was “manufactured.” That perception was fueled by the group’s “invisibility,” as well as Mr. Saleh’s well-documented history of manipulating extremist groups for his own ends, including to win financial and military support from the United States for counterterrorism operations, she said.But whether the Islamic State has grown organically or not, “the threat is real and the threat is strong,” Ms. Dawsari said.The group has sent suicide bombers to attack mosques in Sana, which is controlled by the Houthis. In the past few weeks, the Islamic State has claimed responsibility for car bombings in Aden, including an attack on a hotel hosting members of Mr. Hadi’s government and another at a headquarters for the Saudi-led coalition.A video released recently by the branch underscored its determination to showcase its brutality. In one section, the video shows masked gunmen leading prisoners to a small boat that was set out to sea and then blown up. Another vignette showed four captives made to wear what appeared to be mortar shells, draped around their necks, then pose for the camera before the shells were detonated.The governor of Aden, Jaafar Mohamed Saad, was the highest-ranking official killed by the group since the emergence of the Islamic State in Yemen about a year ago. The relative ease of the attack showed a failure “to establish security in the south, despite a huge opportunity,” Ms. Dawsari said.The Saudi-led coalition sent thousands of troops to drive the Houthis out of Aden and other southern provinces in July. But afterward, a decree issued by Mr. Hadi to integrate local resistance groups into the armed forces was not carried out, Ms. Dawsari said.“The presence of foreign troops hasn’t been helpful, except for keeping Saleh and the Houthis from coming back,” she said. “Aden does not need foreign troops for security. It needs local security structures and police forces.”The struggles by the coalition to establish security and stem the growth of the militant groups could carry consequences beyond Yemen’s borders, according to security analysts.“The assassinations and other violence show that ISIS has gained power,” said Matthew G. Olsen, a former director of the National Counterterrorism Center in Washington. “There’s real concern that some of the most capable operational terrorists, who are now with A.Q.A.P., could join forces with ISIS and pose a heightened threat to carry out external attacks,” he said, using an acronym for Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.Others said defections from Al Qaeda were already gathering steam. “There are large numbers of both leaders and individuals joining the Islamic State,” said a former member of Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula who has left the group but remains close to its members. Many of the defectors, he said, were hard-line jihadists and young militants frustrated with Al Qaeda’s failure to be more aggressive during the current war.But the militants of the Islamic State, he said, “follow their words with actions.”
Since firing Coach Jack Capuano in January, the Islanders have won five of six games, including a 3-2 victory over the first-place Washington Capitals on Tuesday. They have moved from last place in the N.H.L.’s Eastern Conference to 3 points out of a playoff position.But they can’t seem to escape discussion of their uncomfortable marriage with Barclays Center in Brooklyn, where the team has played the last two seasons.A deadline looms at the end of this year to renegotiate the Islanders’ lease, and the team appears limited to three imperfect options: return to a renovated Nassau Coliseum, build a new arena in a resistant city neighborhood, or convince Barclays Center that the team is still a viable commodity.Either side can opt out of the current agreement as early as January 2018. Depending on which side terminates the deal, the Isles would need a new home after the 2017-18 season or the 2018-19 one. According to a Bloomberg report this week, financial projections by the Barclays ownership team, which pays the Isles $53.5 million per year for rights to operate the business, showed the arena could make more money with concerts and other events.The Islanders have new owners this season in Jon Ledecky and Scott Malkin, and the N.H.L. is monitoring the situation.“The owners are committed to the franchise,” Gary Bettman, the league commissioner, said last weekend during All-Star Game festivities. “They’re committed to New York and the great fan base that has followed the Islanders. There are some issues about playing in Barclays. It may be fundamental to the system, and that’s not something that can be fixed in the short term.“I think, as is prudent, Scott Malkin and Jon Ledecky are reviewing the situation and looking very seriously at what their options are,” Bettman said.Since the Islanders moved into the arena in 2015, several issues have dogged them. Average attendance is 12,773, third lowest in the league, despite the team’s resurgence in recent weeks. Sightlines at the asymmetric Barclays, which was not built with hockey in mind, have been problematic, and the ice has been subpar.With the aging Coliseum below N.H.L. standards for amenities, the Islanders left their Long Island home of 42 years after the 2014-15 season. The team was subject to relocation rumors for years as several plans to construct a new arena on Long Island failed to gain support.For the last 18 months, the Coliseum has been closed for renovation. The area around the arena in Uniondale will also be the site of a future retail and entertainment district.For some time, it had been assumed that the renovated Coliseum, designed to seat 13,000 when it reopens this spring, would be too small to house an N.H.L. team. Barclays Center’s roughly 15,800 seats for hockey are the second fewest in the league, behind Winnipeg’s 15,294. But the N.H.L. considers potential ticket revenue as much as stadium capacity. At present, the Islanders are averaging fewer fans in Brooklyn than the projected capacity in Long Island.And Nassau County has been told that the Coliseum could be expanded to its pre-renovation capacity of 16,000-plus for ice hockey.The Nassau County executive, Edward P. Mangano, said there was room for seats to be added to accommodate the Islanders. He met with Ledecky and Malkin in November, along with representatives from Barclays Center, and came away believing the team could be on its way back. For now, the Isles are committed to playing only six games each season at the renovated Coliseum.“There is a path for the Islanders to return to the new Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum, where the best sightlines in N.H.L. remain,” Mangano said in a statement. He added, “While the decision remains with the Islanders, we believe Long Island fans will make the Islanders successful in the new Coliseum.”Ledecky, a New York native, and Malkin, who grew up in Connecticut, paid $485 million to Charles Wang for the franchise, according to Forbes, and would probably prefer to remain in the region.They reportedly have explored building an arena  next to Citi Field in Queens or near Belmont Park. But a new arena, in a metropolitan area that already has four competing for concerts and events, is fraught with logistical and financial problems. Attempts to construct a new outdoor stadium in Queens by the owners of New York City Football Club, the M.L.S. team, have been thwarted by community activists and politicians.Complicating all these issues are the crossover relationships of the involved parties. Barclays Center is operated by Brooklyn Sports and Entertainment, which also manages Nassau Coliseum. Mikhail D. Prokhorov, the Russian billionaire and principal owner of Barclays Center, also owns the Nets, but is said to be seeking investors for the team and the arena.Fans of the Isles appear as conflicted as executives who are scrambling for a solution.“I think they should leave as soon as they can,” said Melissa Korck, a Manhattan artist who attends about 20 home games per season. “It would be better selling out the Coliseum with 13,000 people than being here with empty spaces and seats.”Stephanie Beige, a Manhattan lawyer and season-ticket holder who has been an Islanders fan since the team’s glory days in the 1980s, would prefer the team stay in the city.“I personally think a new stadium in Flushing is the best option,” Beige said. “Besides ice issues and sightlines, Barclays is simply too hard for Long Island and Westchester fans to get to during the week.”“An arena near Citi Field solves this problem and doesn’t alienate new fans from N.Y.C., Queens and Brooklyn,” she added. “No matter what Ledecky and Malkin decide to do, I hope they realize that fans are really tired of the arena drama.”
AMONA OUTPOST, West Bank — In a major acceleration of new settlement construction plans, Israel approved thousands more housing units in the occupied West Bank late on Tuesday, defying international pressure and launching a forceful new phase of Israeli expansion into land the Palestinians claim for a future state.The announcement called for 3,000 more settler housing units in the West Bank, roughly doubling two earlier proposed construction plans that brought harsh international condemnation in recent days. Together, the moves have been a significant triumph for conservative politicians who have pressed for more aggressive expansion of settlements.“We are in a new era, where life in Judea and Samaria goes back to its normal and proper course,” the defense minister, Avigdor Lieberman, said in a statement, using the biblical name for the West Bank.But the announcement, around midnight Tuesday, also seemed to be timed to soothe hard feelings among that same political constituency as thousands of soldiers and police converged early Wednesday on the unauthorized settlement outpost of Amona to evacuate it, days ahead of a court-ordered deadline for its demolition and after years of legal wrangling.While young activists barricaded themselves inside some trailer homes and tried to resist the evacuation, settler leaders appeared more intent on exacting a price for it. The new building plans were one way of minimizing any benefit to the Palestinians on whose privately owned land Amona, a flagship of the outpost enterprise, was constructed.And a potentially bigger move still lies ahead: The Israeli Parliament is scheduled to vote next week on legislation that would retroactively legalize scores of other settlement homes and outposts built on private Palestinian land and prevent any future evacuations and demolitions.The promotion of the settlement project signals an Israeli government emboldened by the new Trump administration, which has so far indicated that it will be more sympathetic to Israeli positions after years of constraints imposed by Washington.The latest plans for the new units in about a dozen settlements came a week after Israel approved 2,500 homes in the West Bank and 566 in East Jerusalem.World leaders have denounced the settlements in the West Bank, home to an estimated 400,000 Israelis, arguing that they are choking off the hopes for an agreement on two states — one for Palestinians, one for Israelis.In December, the United Nations Security Council denounced settlement building — a position that the United States tacitly supported in the waning days of the Obama administration.“This is a government of settlers that has abandoned the two-state solution and fully embraced the settler agenda,” said Husam Zomlot, strategic affairs adviser to Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority.Mr. Trump seems not to share former President Barack Obama’s opposition to the settlements. Whereas the Obama administration expressed regular criticism of them, Mr. Trump has said nothing about the new construction and his administration has shown signs of tightening ties between the two countries.About 3,000 soldiers and police officers took part in the operation to evacuate Amona, where about 40 families who lived in the outpost were joined by hundreds of supporters.The government had been working to conduct the evacuation without bloodshed, and hundreds of Israeli police officers, wearing police caps and blue fleece jackets but carrying no weapons, moved into position.At about 2 p.m., the police began evacuating the settlers, ripping up the makeshift barricades and smashing the windows of trailers used by activists.As the police tried to gain entry to one house, residents responded by throwing some kind of liquid, and one man screamed, “You are supposed to protect us, not break into our homes!”Ayelet Videl, 35, who moved to the windy, hilltop outpost from Jerusalem nine years ago, said she had packed a few bags, but not the entire house. She was waiting for a final order to leave, and left later in the day.“I didn’t believe this terrible thing would happen,” said Ms. Videl, who had sent her four children, all born in Amona, to their grandparents’ house in central Israel. “This is our land, this is our forefather’s land. For 50 years, they’ve related to it in a confused way. They should have declared sovereignty over it.”Ms. Videl’s husband, Hillel, had to be carried out by security forces.Despite the evacuation, settler leaders said the day’s events represented only a minor setback in what they see as a larger battle. Shilo Adler, the head of the Yesha Council, which represents settlers in the area, said he felt that the transition to a Trump administration was an opportunity to spread settlers that was delayed in the Obama era.“Now is the time. Now we have a historical time to build in all of Judea and Samaria,” he said, adding, “Take this very bad story, and think what we can do now, like after the rain.”By nightfall, about half the families had left their homes. The police reported that about 20 officers had been slightly injured by thrown objects, and said that about 13 people had been arrested for taking part in disturbances.By midafternoon, the police had reported at least 10 injuries from objects being thrown at them, and said that about 20 people described as rioters had been arrested.The announcement on Tuesday for the new settlement homes could help ease the pressure on Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is under investigation on several fronts and is trying to push back against politicians further to the right. The education minister, Naftali Bennett, is pressing for legislation — not yet fully embraced by Mr. Netanyahu — to take the drastic step of the first annexation of a settlement, Ma’ale Adumim, just east of Jerusalem.Speaking in the parliament on Wednesday as the outpost evacuation got underway, Mr. Bennett said of Amona: “We lost the battle, but we are winning the campaign for the land of Israel.”Mr. Netanyahu is also pushing for the contentious legislation that would retroactively legalize the illegal outposts, though he originally opposed it. Israel’s attorney general has said that the bill is unconstitutional an contravenes international law, and that he would refuse to defend any challenges in court.“Instead of making peace with the Palestinians, Prime Minister Netanyahu and his cabinet spend time making peace with the settlers, which at the end of the day, is their preferred partner for the future of the Jewish state,” said Mitchell Barak, a pollster and political consultant.Mr. Zomlot said that Mr. Netanyahu was using this time of political transition in the United States to test how the new administration’s stance might differ from that of Mr. Obama. The prime minister is to meet with Mr. Trump in Washington on Feb. 15.There are already signs that Mr. Trump intends to be more sympathetic to Israel’s claims: He appointed as ambassador to Israel David Friedman, who opposes a two-state solution and has supported settlements.Mr. Trump has also promised to move the American Embassy to Jerusalem — a move that Palestinians and Arab leaders have denounced as de facto recognition of Israel’s annexation of East Jerusalem after capturing it, along with the West Bank, from Jordan in the 1967 war. Mr. Trump has since said the move requires further study.Nonetheless, Mr. Zomlot said his “working assumption” was that the Trump administration would ultimately fall more in line with past American administrations, which have seen two states as the only solution.“We are looking forward to working with this administration to find a formula for peace — the ultimate deal, as Trump called it,” he said.
AMONA OUTPOST, West Bank — In a major acceleration of new settlement construction plans, Israel has approved thousands more housing units in the occupied West Bank and, for the first time in years, has called for the establishment of an entire new settlement there.Together, the moves intensified Israel’s defiance of international pressure, and opened a forceful new phase of Israeli expansion into land the Palestinians claim for a future state.Even amid images of struggle and frustration on Wednesday as hundreds of police officers moved to clear out the illegal Amona outpost in the West Bank, the long-term aims of right-wing politicians who have called for the aggressive expansion of settlements have seldom taken as large a leap forward, after years of rebuke from the Obama administration.“We are in a new era, where life in Judea and Samaria goes back to its normal and proper course,” the defense minister, Avigdor Lieberman, said in a statement, using the biblical name for the West Bank.Near midnight on Tuesday, the Israeli government approved 3,000 more settler housing units in the occupied West Bank. That roughly doubled the amount of proposed new housing units announced in recent days. Then, on Wednesday, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who has come under heavy pressure from rival politicians on the right to take bolder steps to expand settlements, announced that he would promote the establishment of an entirely new West Bank settlement.Palestinians reacted with weary opposition, in the long absence of any real hope for the renewal of talks working toward a two-state solution, with a full Palestinian state alongside Israel.“This is a government of settlers that has abandoned the two-state solution and fully embraced the settler agenda,” said Husam Zomlot, the strategic affairs adviser to Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority.It was a revealing and dramatic day on the chilly hilltops of the West Bank, now occupied for 50 years after Israel’s capture of it from Jordan in the Arab-Israeli War of 1967.The new construction announcements seemed timed to soothe hard feelings among the Israeli right as hundreds of soldiers and police officers converged early Wednesday on the unauthorized settlement outpost of Amona to evacuate it, days ahead of a court-ordered deadline for its demolition and after more than a decade of legal wrangling. It was built, the courts here say, on privately owned Palestinian land and has become a minefield for Israeli politicians.But as young activists barricaded themselves inside some trailer homes and tried to resist the evacuation, settler leaders appeared largely upbeat: Despite the evacuation, they said the day’s events represented only a minor setback in what they see as a larger battle, in which many Israelis doubt there is any deal the Palestinians will ever accept.Shilo Adler, the head of the Yesha Council, which represents settlers in the area, said the transition to the Trump administration in the United States had provided an unprecedented opportunity for wider expansion — an opportunity he said should be pressed especially hard before Mr. Netanyahu is to meet Mr. Trump in Washington on Feb. 15.“Now we have a historical time to build in all of Judea and Samaria,” he said. “Take this very bad story, and think what we can do now, like after the rain.”Mr. Netanyahu’s office said he had promised the settlers about six weeks ago that he would establish a new settlement. On Wednesday, as another sweetener to compensate for the removal of Amona, he appointed a team to begin work on locating a site for it.During previous American administrations, Israel made a commitment not to build new settlements. For years, Israel made a point of describing housing developments and outposts dotting the West Bank as new “neighborhoods” of existing settlements.World leaders have denounced the settlements in the West Bank, home to an estimated 400,000 Israeli settlers, arguing that they are choking off the hopes for two states. In December, the United Nations Security Council rejected settlement building as a “flagrant violation” under international law — a position that the United States tacitly supported in the waning days of the Obama administration.Mr. Trump seems not to share former President Barack Obama’s opposition: He has said nothing about the new construction, and his administration has shown signs of tightening ties between the two countries.The latest plans for the new units in about a dozen settlements came a week after Israel approved 2,500 homes in the West Bank and 566 in East Jerusalem. At the same time, the Israeli Parliament is scheduled to vote next week on legislation that would retroactively legalize scores of other settlement homes and outposts built on private Palestinian land and prevent any future evacuations and demolitions.At the hilltop outpost of Amona, about 3,000 soldiers and police officers took part in the operation to evacuate about 40 families who lived in the outpost and hundreds of supporters, who lit fires and littered the roads with large rocks to try to prevent the authorities from advancing.The government had been working to conduct the evacuation without bloodshed, and hundreds of Israeli police officers, wearing caps and blue fleece jackets but carrying no weapons, moved into position in the early morning.Around 2 p.m., the police began taking away settlers who would not leave voluntarily, ripping up the makeshift barricades and smashing the windows of trailers used by activists.As the police tried to gain entry to one house, people inside responded by throwing some kind of liquid, and one man screamed, “You are supposed to protect us, not break into our homes!”Ayelet Videl, 35, who moved to the windy outpost from Jerusalem nine years ago, said she had packed a few bags, but not the entire house. She was waiting for a final order to leave, and left later in the day.“I didn’t believe this terrible thing would happen,” said Ms. Videl, who had sent her four children, all born in Amona, to their grandparents’ house in central Israel. “This is our land, this is our forefathers’ land. For 50 years, they’ve related to it in a confused way. They should have declared sovereignty over it.”Ms. Videl’s husband, Hillel, had to be carried out by security forces.By evening, with about half the outpost emptied, the police had reported at least 20 injuries from objects being thrown at them, and they said that about a dozen people described as rioters had been arrested.The new settlement announcements could help ease the pressure on Mr. Netanyahu, who is under investigation on several fronts and is trying to push back against politicians further to the right. The education minister, Naftali Bennett, is pressing for legislation — not yet fully embraced by Mr. Netanyahu — to take the drastic step of the first annexation of a West Bank settlement, Ma’ale Adumim, just east of Jerusalem.Speaking in the Parliament on Wednesday as the outpost evacuation began, Mr. Bennett said of Amona, “We lost the battle, but we are winning the campaign for the land of Israel.”Mr. Netanyahu is also now pushing for the contentious legislation that would retroactively legalize the illegal outposts, although he originally opposed it. Israel’s attorney general has said that the bill is unconstitutional and contravenes international law, and that he would refuse to defend any challenges in court.“Instead of making peace with the Palestinians, Prime Minister Netanyahu and his cabinet spend time making peace with the settlers, which at the end of the day, is their preferred partner for the future of the Jewish state,” said Mitchell Barak, a pollster and political consultant.Mr. Zomlot, the adviser to Mr. Abbas, said Mr. Netanyahu was using this time of political transition in the United States to test how the new administration’s stance might differ from that of Mr. Obama.There are already signs that Mr. Trump intends to be more sympathetic to Israel’s claims: He appointed as ambassador to Israel David M. Friedman, who opposes a two-state solution and has supported settlements.Mr. Trump has also promised to move the American Embassy to Jerusalem — a move that Palestinians and Arab leaders have denounced as de facto recognition of Israel’s annexation of East Jerusalem after capturing it from Jordan in the 1967 war. Mr. Trump has since said that the move requires further study.Nonetheless, Mr. Zomlot said his “working assumption” was that the Trump administration would ultimately fall more in line with past American administrations, which have seen two states as the only solution.“We are looking forward to working with this administration to find a formula for peace — the ultimate deal, as Trump called it,” he said.
MA’ALE ADUMIM, West Bank — The first babies of Ma’ale Adumim, a hilly city on the eastern outskirts of Jerusalem, are now middle-aged. A cemetery finally opened last year, and 40 residents are buried there, most dead of natural causes after long and peaceful lives.That is to say, there is nothing temporary about this place, one of the closest settlements to Jerusalem in the occupied West Bank, which Israel seized from Jordan 50 years ago. “It’s part of Jerusalem,” said Sima Weiss, 58, who has lived here 30 years, raised three children and works a cleaning job just 20 minutes away by bus in the holy city proper. “I don’t feel like a settler.”The world has focused more critically recently on Israel’s settlements in occupied territory, after last month’s United Nations declaration — which the United States tacitly supported — that they are killing the dream of one state for Jews, one for Palestinians.Many Israelis argue that Ma’ale Adumim — a city of 41,000 with filled schools, a largely secular civic pride and skittish stray cats — is a special case: Its closeness to Jerusalem has put it near the top of the list of settlements Israelis say they could swap for other land in a peace deal.Yet Ma’ale Adumim has become a flash point of the conflict between Palestinians and Israelis. Right-wing politicians, emboldened by a more sympathetic Trump administration, want to annex it to Israel proper — the first formal annexation of a settlement. Supporters of the move argue that in the long absence of negotiations, Israel cannot stand still, and Ma’ale Adumim would likely be a part of Israel in any case.“Clearly it’s time for a quantum change,” Naftali Bennett, the education minister, who plans to introduce the annexation bill, said in an interview. “The incremental approach has not worked. We have to understand it’s a new reality. We have to go big, bold and fast.”The Parliament seems poised to approve a law that few thought had any chance of passage just a few months ago: It would ultimately legalize settlement homes built illegally on private Palestinian land. Critics call this yet another form of creeping annexation.Many Palestinians agree this is a critical moment. They fear Ma’ale Adumim will be just the beginning of the annexation of settlements in the West Bank, now home to roughly 400,000 Jews, and the end of the two-state dream.“We believe in two states for two nations, but if they took that” — Ma’ale Adumim — “there will be no longer two states,” said Yousef Mostafa Mkhemer, chairman of the Organization of Jerusalem Steadfastness, which focuses on issues like Muslim holy sites, refugee camps and Israeli settlements. “There will be one state called Israel.”Many Palestinians and peace activists argue that the line has already been crossed — that any annexation of Ma’ale Adumim, after so many years, would be a technicality.“We are living in one state now,” said Ziad Abu Zayyad, a Palestinian lawyer and writer. Mr. Zayyad, a former Palestinian minister, said that unlike most Palestinians he supported Donald J. Trump for president, in part because he felt his apparently greater sympathy for Israel would begin to provide a clarity to a long-stuck conflict.“I want to see a change,” he said. “I’m fed up.”“He could be a big devil. He could be something good. My point is he will make a change, for the good or for the bad.”There are signs, in fact, that the conflict here is already shifting, with Ma’ale Adumim near the center, no matter how quiet and workaday its residents think themselves (70 percent of residents commute to Jerusalem proper for their jobs).After eight years of little building, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu just allotted 100 new building units to Ma’ale Adumim, part of 2,500 new proposed housing units around the West Bank settlements, and another 560 in East Jerusalem. Mr. Netanyanu has proclaimed this as just the beginning of a new wave of building.Less than a month after the United Nations resolution, the city’s mayor, Benny Kashriel, and another settlement leader proudly attended Mr. Trump’s inauguration. That would have been unthinkable for past incoming American presidents, out of fear it could be interpreted as an endorsement of settlements, which most of the world considers illegal.“It’s a different policy,” Mr. Kashriel, mayor for 25 years, said just a day back from Washington. He believes that the new administration sees places like Ma’ale Adumim more benignly than did former President Barack Obama, whose administration blocked much building here and in the nearby E1, an especially contentious area closer to Jerusalem.“We didn’t steal the land from anybody,” he said. “It was built on empty hills. You can see there — the desert, rocks and sand. Now you have a living city.”Much of the outside world’s attention has focused on more religious settlements deeper into the West Bank or on land with Palestinian titles in more direct conflict with Palestinians. But here, scrutiny has been intense on Ma’ale Adumim.It is partly symbolic: Israel has not annexed 1967 land beyond East Jerusalem and the Golan Heights. Opponents of the move fear it would be the start of a process that would not end until politicians like Mr. Bennett achieved their dreams of annexing large swaths of the West Bank and leaving the Palestinians with what Mr. Netanyahu recently called “a state-minus.”It is partly strategic: The settlement is at the heart of entrenched plans to expand Jerusalem, linking it to the city proper, along with other nearby settlements that also function in practice as Jerusalem suburbs. One issue with Ma’ale Adumim, critics argue, is its place in the West Bank, between north and south, that combined with other building plans could both hamper transit of Palestinians and threaten the contiguous borders of any future Palestinian state.The area is also not as empty as Ma’ale Adumim’s supporters say.Eid Abu Khamis, the leader of some 8,000 Bedouins in the area, says harassment by Israel has increased recently. More of their makeshift housing has been torn down and land for their goats and sheep — they sell meat, yogurt and cheese to survive — declared off-limits.Most of the Bedouins live in the E1 area, which is technically a part of Ma’ale Adumim and is slated for some 3,700 new housing units. The Obama administration staunchly opposed any development in E1 as a possible point of no return for a viable Palestinian state.“If the Bedouin are kicked out of this land where we have lived for 30 years, it will be the end of negotiations with the State of Israel,” Mr. Khamis said.Many Palestinians argue that the annexation could ignite another round of violent revolt. A Palestinian flag was recently planted in a park in Ma’ale Adumim here, a worrying sign for residents that the less expensive, less harried life in their suburb may change.“I didn’t come because I believe we should take all the land between the Mediterranean and the Jordan River,” said a 71-year-old resident, a driver who would give his name only as Max S. “It was cheap. That’s why I came. If I could change my apartment to an apartment in Tel Aviv, in a minute I would do it. “People here are proud of what they have built since it was founded in 1975, with 15 religious Jews. There is a library, a theater, 15 schools and 78 kindergartens. It is mostly secular, but gets along with its more religious residents, about a quarter of the population. An industrial park, while the occasional target of the worldwide campaign to boycott goods made in settlements, is thriving and employs some 4,000 Palestinians — at much higher wages, the mayor notes, than they could earn in Palestinian areas.Ronit Jackov, 55, who works in the local mall (which is getting a new floor with five cinemas), said she favored annexation, largely so the city can begin to grow again after years of a building freeze.She said she would never move back to Jerusalem, in part because the city has become too religious and rigid. “I’m not comfortable in a place where people tell you how to live,” she said. “People want to live their lives.”And she places much hope in Mr. Trump, that he will side more forcefully with Israelis.“I’m not a very political person,” she said. “But I’m waiting for him to carry out what he said, and I’ll say, ‘You are great.’ Because the whole world is against us. We need someone on our side.”
Sitting in a Chicago diner in 1984, the artist Stephen Boggs began doodling on a paper napkin as he consumed a coffee and a doughnut. He started with the numeral 1, then transformed it into the image of a dollar bill.His waitress, impressed, offered to buy it. Mr. Boggs refused, but presented it in payment for his 90-cent tab. The waitress handed him 10 cents in change.An idea was born.For the next three decades, Mr. Boggs, better known by his artistic signature, J. S. G. Boggs, kept money on his mind. Extending the logic of the diner transaction, he painstakingly reproduced British pounds, Swiss francs and American dollars, with quirky deviations.On American currency, for example, he might use the signature “J. S. G. Boggs, Secret of the Treasury,” or inscribe “Kunstbank of Bohemia” on a $5,000 bill, or append the motto “In Fun We Trust.” At first he created the notes one by one, a time-consuming process. Later he ran off limited-edition prints.He presented his currency to merchants as payment for goods and services. If the bills were accepted, he asked for a receipt and, when appropriate, change. He noted the details of each transaction on the backs of his “Boggs bills,” which were blank, and sold the receipts to collectors. It was up to them to track down the merchant — for a fee, Mr. Boggs would assist — and negotiate purchase of the note.Mr. Boggs never sold his bills. He only spent them.The assembled elements were, in the opinion of Mr. Boggs and his admirers, artworks, exhibited as such in galleries around the world and included in the collections of the Art Institute of Chicago, the Museum of Modern Art in New York and the Smithsonian American Art Museum in Washington.“I create images that say things and ask things,” Mr. Boggs said in the 2013 Discovery Channel documentary “Money Man.” “I take them out into the real world and try to spend them, not as counterfeits, but as works of art that ask us about the nature of money.”Law enforcement agencies in several countries took a different view. They regarded Mr. Boggs as a forger. They expressed this opinion, on several occasions, by seizing the notes or putting Mr. Boggs on trial.“They said I was a counterfeiter,” an indignant Mr. Boggs told The Associated Press in 1992, when agents in the counterfeiting division of the Secret Service raided his apartment near Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, where he was an artist in residence, and took possession of more than 100 of his artworks. “They don’t understand the difference between art and crime.”The Tampa police discovered Mr. Boggs’s body on Sunday in a motel near the Tampa airport. He was 62. Robert Salmon, manager of operations for the Hillsborough County Medical Examiner’s Office, said the cause of death had not been determined.He was born Stephen Litzner in Woodbury, N.J., on Jan. 16, 1955. (He later added the names James and George.) His mother, the former Marlene Dietrich Hildebrandt, divorced his father when Stephen was an infant, and nothing is known about him.She joined a carnival, performed as “Margo, Queen of the Jungle,” and in 1961 married a Tampa businessman, Jim Boggs, with whom she ran the Brahman Lounge, a bar and package store. She later wrote a neighborhood column for The Tampa Tribune, reporting on the doings in Brandon, the Tampa suburb where she lived.Mr. Boggs attended Brandon High School but was expelled in his junior year. “I was accused of starting a riot in the auditorium, but it was somebody else who threw the book at the principal,” he told the journalist Lawrence Weschler, who wrote a profile of Mr. Boggs for The New Yorker in 1988 that evolved into a book, “Boggs: A Comedy of Values,” published in 1999.He took courses at Miami University in Ohio, Hillsborough Community College in Tampa and Columbia University, pursuing, vaguely, a career in accountancy. In the late 1970s, he decided to study art and moved to London.He enrolled in the Camden Arts Center there and began producing conceptual paintings — some consisting of repeated versions of his signature, others filled with elaborately embellished numbers.After his fateful visit to Chicago, for the International Art Exposition at Navy Pier, he returned to London and pursued the money trail with little success until he exhibited “Pined Newt,” an oversize pound note, at the International Contemporary Art Fair in London in 1986. It sold for 1,500 times its face value and attracted the attention of Rudy Demenga, a Swiss art dealer, who invited him to Art Basel.The Swiss turned out to be ideal customers. Wherever he went, Mr. Boggs found that his handcrafted bank notes, executed with a fine pen on expensive paper, were, so to speak, legal tender. He began dining in fine restaurants and moved into a five-star hotel.“All money is art,” Mr. Boggs told The Orlando Sentinel in 1997. “If you look at a dollar, it’s portraiture, it’s landscape art, it’s abstract designs.“I think people need to think more about money. If they did, they’d think more about what they do to make it and what they do with it once it is made.”The British were less accommodating. As he was preparing to exhibit four bank notes at the Young Unknowns Gallery in London in 1986, three constables raided the gallery and hauled Mr. Boggs off to jail. He was charged with four counts of violating the Forgery and Counterfeiting Act.The civil-rights lawyer Geoffrey Robertson mounted a successful defense. Mr. Boggs paid him in Boggs notes. In his book “The Justice Game” (1998), Mr. Robertson wrote that the Bank of England, in response to the Boggs case, added a copyright notice to its paper currency.Three years later, Mr. Boggs was arrested in Sydney, Australia. This time the judge dismissed the case and awarded him $20,000 in damages.While in residence at Carnegie Mellon, Mr. Boggs planned to photocopy $1 million in Boggs bills and release them into the local economy, relying on others to keep them in circulation.“I’ve been spending this money for eight years,” he told The Associated Press. “I’ve learned so much. I wanted to share the experience.”Secret Service agents made it clear to local merchants that anyone using the bills as currency would face prosecution, and the grand experiment ended.Mr. Boggs filed suit to regain possession of his notes — he had lost more than 1,300 artworks in raids between 1990 and 1992 — and to win legal recognition of his work as art. In 1993, Federal District Judge Royce Lamberth dismissed the suit.“This court accepts Mr. Boggs’s belief that money is valued, in part, because of our trust in political institutions,” Judge Lamberth wrote in his ruling. “To that end, these political institutions should be given the means by which to establish and maintain the value of United States currency.”He added: “It is often said that ‘a picture is worth a thousand words.’ Unfortunately, Mr. Boggs’s works are often worth a thousand dollars.” Further appeals were unavailing.“It’s all an act of faith,” Mr. Boggs told Mr. Weschler for his New Yorker profile. “Nobody knows what a dollar is, what the word means, what holds the thing up, what it stands in for. And that’s what my work is about. Look at these things, I try to say. They’re beautiful. But what the hell are they? What do they do? How do they do it?”Over the years, Mr. Boggs, who leaves no immediate survivors, traded his bills for goods and services, from candy bars to motorcycles, whose worth he estimated at several million dollars.In the mid-1990s, when Worth magazine asked him to design a note using the Treasury Department’s new guidelines, Mr. Boggs produced a $100 bill with the image of Harriet Tubman as a young girl, anticipating by 20 years the announcement that Tubman would replace Andrew Jackson as the new face of the $20 bill. In 2001, he ran off a series of 100,000 plastic Sacagawea dollars, stamped with his own mint marks and paid for with a $5,000 Boggs bill.Speaking to ARTnews after Mr. Boggs’s death, Mr. Weschler said, “He was just short of being a con man, but no more than anyone in the art world, or for that matter in the world of finance — which, of course, was his whole point.”
WASHINGTON — Janet L. Yellen, the Federal Reserve chairwoman, was asked Thursday night what teachers should tell students to get them excited about central banking.Tell them about fighting financial crises, Ms. Yellen responded.After all, she noted, that is the reason the Fed was created.That exchange, at an event the Fed billed as a town-hall meeting for educators, reflected the lasting effects of the 2008 financial crisis. Before then, Fed officials rarely talked about the Fed’s firefighting responsibilities. Ms. Yellen said she did not talk about them either when she was a university professor.“This critical role of central banks as a lender of last resort is something that never got any attention when I taught money and banking,” Ms. Yellen said.Ms. Yellen also expressed the hope, however, that central banking would not be quite so interesting in the coming years. If the Fed does its job successfully, she said, then “instead of being on Page 1, we can be back on Page 19 in the newspapers.”The event, a reprise of a similar session three years ago, gave teachers an opportunity to speak with the nation’s top economist. A couple of dozen educators from the Washington area gathered in the Fed’s grand boardroom, where monetary policy is made, while many others joined by videoconference from regional Fed offices.Asked about her outlook, Ms. Yellen said that the economy “is doing quite well” for now, but she said that “long term, I think there are quite serious problems.”Productivity, which ultimately determines living standards, has increased slowly in recent years, for reasons that are not fully understood, she said.“I also worry a great deal about inequality,” Ms. Yellen said, noting that most economic gains were accruing to the wealthiest Americans and that the share of young people doing as well or better than their parents had declined sharply.She also described as “very shocking”  recent research showing that mortality rates were rising for middle-aged white Americans with no more than a high school education. “This is a consequence and a reflection of greater economic insecurities,” Ms. Yellen said. “And obviously, that is a very disturbing trend.”Ms. Yellen did not comment on the Fed’s plans for interest rates. But her upbeat comments on the economy suggested that nothing significant had changed since the Fed’s last policy-making meeting, in December, when the central bank predicted that economic growth would continue, and that it would raise rates three times in 2017.Patrick T. Harker, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, said Thursday that he expected that it would be appropriate for the Fed to increase rates three times during 2017, the consensus view among Fed officials.“The labor market is strong, and we’re creating jobs at a good pace,” Mr. Harker said in Malvern, Pa. “We’re starting 2017 off on a good foot.”A minority of Fed officials want to move more slowly. James Bullard, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, said Thursday in New York that the Fed’s benchmark interest rate should stay “exceptionally low” for the rest of 2017.Fed officials have said it is too soon to predict the effect of President-elect Donald J. Trump’s economic policies. Mr. Bullard said the incoming administration’s fiscal policies were not likely to affect economic growth until 2018 and 2019.In her opening remarks, Ms. Yellen highlighted the importance of preparing students to contribute to the work force and to be what she called “responsible consumers.”“Consumers skilled in managing their finances are better prepared to weather bad times,” she said, “and stronger household finances over all can help sustain growth, stabilize the economy and mitigate an economic downturn.”Leah Young, who teaches economics and personal finance at Washington-Lee High School in Arlington, Va, said she had jumped at the chance to attend the town hall meeting. She particularly relished Ms. Yellen’s response to a question about why economics remains a male-dominated field.Ms. Yellen dismissed the idea that women were less interested in economics, pointing instead to issues like bias and a lack of role models, and reiterating her hope that change will come.“I liked that she talked about all the reasons why women aren’t in this and she shot those all down,” Ms. Young said. The message for her students: You can do this, too.
Japandroids, the deceptively noisy two-piece punk band from Vancouver, does not shy away from its reputation as a rock ’n’ roll throwback.Since its 2009 debut LP, “Post-Nothing,” each of the duo’s no-frills albums has followed the same simple blueprint: barely half an hour of music spread across eight songs — “the standard template for a great rock ’n’ roll album,” they note, citing “Raw Power” by the Stooges and “Born to Run” by Bruce Springsteen — and sequenced for vinyl, with a deliberate Side A and Side B. The plain black-and-white covers always depict the band as they are: two goofy, scruffy, everyday dudes.They could also be called stubborn. In a digital world, Japandroids is still best known for the sweaty, scream-along camaraderie — think bro-hugs and raised fists — of its live shows. There are no viral music videos, no corporate sponsors, no flashy, cross-genre collaborations. The guitarist and singer Brian King and the drummer David Prowse have almost no public profile as individuals — and not coincidentally, no personal social media — and cling to an independent ethos long since dismissed as inconvenient or irrelevant.“It’s a weird thing, looking around, there’s not a whole lot of bands making the same music as us that are as popular as us,” Mr. Prowse, 34, said over barbecue this month. “Most rock bands I can think of that are quite a bit bigger have just been around for a lot longer.”Yet, in spite of (or perhaps because of) its principles, Japandroids has become something of a unicorn in today’s musical landscape since the release of its breakthrough album, “Celebration Rock,” in 2012: a vibrant, self-sufficient guitar-led band that keeps growing its audience without making sacrifices, aesthetic or otherwise. Having released just a small handful of songs every three to five years, the group has also upended the supposed model for modern musicians, forgoing demands for constant output and connectivity while keeping its commercialization to a minimum.“We have a tendency to say no to a lot of opportunities that some artists would say yes to,” Mr. Prowse said. For example, though licensing often represents an important revenue stream for bands in the post-CD era, Japandroids refuses to sell its songs for use in ads or other media. (The band’s business solution is almost always more touring.)Mr. King, also 34, said: “I think we’re the last generation that grew up at a time when selling out was the worst thing you could do. We’ve carried over into the new generation where it doesn’t matter.”But Japandroids’ dogmas do not preclude progress: On its third album, “Near to the Wild Heart of Life,” out on Jan. 27, Japandroids has evolved from a fire-hose of guitar feedback and positive vibes to a more erudite and purposeful — but still endearingly slapdash — pair of rock torchbearers. Once content to make greasy, direct and triumphant major-chord anthems about girls, drinking and other forms of escape, the band pushes deeper and wider, especially lyrically, in new songs, weighing what it means to have dedicated a life to such pursuits.Mr. King’s recent inspirations have been mostly literary. Named for the Brazilian writer Clarice Lispector’s 1943 debut novel, “Near to the Wild Heart,” which is itself named after a line in James Joyce’s “A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man,” the third Japandroids album represents a blossoming for a band that has willfully committed to developing a different kind of career at its own speed.“Even if rock was the biggest genre in the world right now, we’d just be doing our thing,” Mr King said.The duo’s thoughtful, ideological seriousness — which coexists with a persistent and polite overall sincerity that can’t help but feel Canadian — is increasingly apparent in its music, which has become more varied in sound, perspective and mood. (Compare, for instance, the playfully scuzzy “Wet Hair,” from “Post-Nothing,” in which Mr. King shouts “must get to France, so we can French kiss some French girls” over and over to these still-libidinous lines from the new album: “Slow burning sermon, to have and hold her/but ever since she started sleeping over/oh lord, I’m living like a holy roller.”)While Japandroids’ recorded output could once feel like a lark — an excuse to go hoarse and spill beer at grimy clubs across the world — “Near to the Wild Heart of Life” was, by design, a more deliberate studio undertaking.“The one big knock that people would make against our band was the idea that we’re a one-trick pony,” Mr. Prowse said, recalling the simplistic but not inaccurate “punk-rock Springsteen” tag that has followed the group. “We could do this one thing really well, but that’s kind of it, you know? So we were both interested in defying expectations of what we were capable of, in terms of songwriting and production and instrumentation.”Mr. King, an unabashed student (and fan) of rock music, compared early Japandroids with bands like the Ramones or AC/DC — “it’s kind of all the same thing, but they’re so good at it that it works.”But before expanding their artistic palette, the band members needed time — and space. Upon returning home after nearly two years of touring in support of “Celebration Rock” — including more than 200 shows across 40 countries — they took the first part of 2014 off from performing, recording and even seeing one another.“There’s definitely something about being in a two-person band who plays as much as we do — you’re spending very unnatural amounts of time together,” Mr. King said. “And often in situations that are enough to dismantle any relationship, no matter how solid it is.”During their break, which marked the longest period the band members had been apart since forming Japandroids in 2006, Mr. King moved to Toronto from his native Vancouver, and soon began spending time in Mexico City, as well, thanks to a new relationship. Eventually, after the band reconnected in Toronto (Mr. Prowse had been summoned East to cat-sit), the pair spent about a month living together in New Orleans, where songwriting for the next album started in earnest.Transience, geographical exploration, new love and old friends all loom on “Near to the Wild Heart of Life,” which melds stories of a touring band’s itinerant lifestyle with the soul-searching that can result upon returning home (or leaving again). “Crisscrossing the continent, all aglow/leaving lovelorn, dating destiny,” Mr. King sings with newly typical grandiosity and alliteration on the road song “North East South West.”“When you’ve been living that life for so long, it becomes normal,” he said. “To just immediately adjust back to the real world can be very difficult.”Fortunately, the word of mouth for “Celebration Rock” spread, and the group’s live success afforded it time to recalibrate before starting the cycle over again.“When we finished touring ‘Post-Nothing,’ we had all this momentum going, and everybody knew it was time to make another record,” Mr. King said. “There were time and financial pressures on us to get something out as quickly as possible, to get back on the road and keep making money.“It wasn’t necessarily the most fun and enjoyable experience with that stuff hanging over your head. There wasn’t a lot of time to experiment.”For its third album, Japandroids insisted on slowing the process, while also seeking a label partner with more resources than Polyvinyl, its previous home.“There were certainly majors that were interested in signing us, but we weren’t really that interested in being signed,” Mr. Prowse said. “Maybe that’s an old-fashioned kind of distinction, but for us, that just still felt weird, and we were very skeptical about the freedom we would have.” Instead, the band landed at Anti-, a hands-off indie (though it manages the band’s social media channels).With firmer financial footing came the chance for risks in both writing and recording, resulting in songs like “I’m Sorry (For Not Finding You Sooner),” Japandroids’ most bare and tender track to date, and “Arc of Bar,” a swirling seven-minute epic at the center of the new album. Mr. King said he wrote the lyrics for “Arc of Bar” before even thinking about instrumentation, a first for Japandroids.“It’s a pretty daunting chunk of words,” Mr. Prowse said. “There’s almost as many lyrics in that song as there are on all of ‘Post-Nothing.’”But sonic inspiration followed as the band, no longer set at breakneck speeds on tracks or in life, experimented with keyboards and acoustic guitars for texture. “The more something sounded like a song off ‘Celebration Rock,’ the less we would be into working on it or the more we would make a conscious attempt to steer it in a different direction,” Mr. King said.Still, Japandroids songs remain recognizable in their earnestness, simplicity and pure adrenaline; career growth aside, the duo maintains a palpable humility that reads more as rock nerd than rock star. “It’s very natural for us to talk about how we’re pretty normal people who aren’t geniuses, who just love music and work hard at what we do,” Mr. Prowse said.At the same time, they’ve found something elusive — relative stability — in what’s supposed to be a reckless line of work. “There’s still a lot of movement, a lot of chaos,” Mr. King said. But, Mr. Prowse added: “We’re not as stupid as we once were. I don’t know if we can call ourselves responsible adults, but we’re getting closer.”
Hillary Clinton and other V.I.P.s. attended a Jan. 25 benefit concert at Jazz at Lincoln Center to support cancer research at Columbia University Medical Center. A pediatrics benefit for NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Weill Cornell Medical College was held Jan. 19 at the Mandarin Oriental. The 63rd Winter Antiques Show had an opening night party on Jan. 19 to benefit the East Side Settlement House. And the Metropolitan Museum of Art hosted a new winter party on Jan. 23 to support diversity and inclusion.
WASHINGTON — A divided Senate Judiciary Committee approved the nomination of Senator Jeff Sessions as attorney general Wednesday, despite a fierce pushback from Democrats over President Trump’s firing this week of the Justice Department’s acting chief, who had objected to the administration’s refugee policy.The action came on a straight party-line vote, with 11 Republicans supporting their former colleague from Alabama and nine Democrats opposing him.The full, Republican-controlled Senate now appears ready to approve Mr. Sessions’ nomination next week, which would give the Justice Department and its 113,000 employees a full-time boss after a tumultuous few days that called its independence into question.The judiciary committee vote came two days after Mr. Trump ousted Sally Q. Yates, a holdover from the Obama administration who was acting attorney general. Ms Yates had refused to defend the president’s order on refugees, saying its legality was unclear. The White House accused her of having “betrayed” her department.Democrats zeroed in Ms. Yates’s dismissal, and said Mr. Sessions, an early supporter of Mr. Trump’s long-shot campaign who went on to become an influential adviser, would not have the independence to challenge the White House on questions of the law and policy. At his confirmation hearing last month, Mr. Sessions pledged repeatedly that he would be able to “say no” to Mr. Trump if needed and would not be “a mere rubber stamp” on issues like immigration and national security.The debate turned ugly as committee members traded personal barbs and accusations of “untoward” behavior. The jousting started when Senator Al Franken, a Minnesota Democrat, began challenging Mr. Sessions’s civil rights record and claimed that another committee member, Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, had “misrepresented” the issue.Mr. Cruz was not at the committee hearing at the time, but his fellow Texan, Senator John Cornyn, rushed to his defense and cut off Mr. Franken midspeech.“I object to the senator disparaging a fellow member of the committee here in his absence,” Mr. Cornyn interjected angrily.“Well, he should be here — first of all — and, secondly, he disparaged me,” Mr. Franken responded.“I would hope he would do it to his face,” Mr. Cornyn said. The attack on Mr. Cruz, he said a moment later, was “untoward and it’s inappropriate and I object.”Senator Charles E. Grassley, the chairman of the committee, told the two senators that “we’d be better off if we just let it go.”But the two senators did not, and Mr. Grassley eventually complained that they were putting him “in an awful bad position.”“Could you please leave personalities out of it?” he implored.Mr. Franken went right on talking — with Mr. Cruz at the center of his attacks.
Jewel Plummer Cobb, who became the first black woman to lead California State University, Fullerton, after being passed over for the presidency of Hunter College — a decision that led to accusations of racism and sexism against the City University of New York’s trustees — died on Jan. 1 at her home in Maplewood, N.J. She was 92.Her son, Jonathan, said the cause was complications of Alzheimer’s disease.When Dr. Cobb was appointed president of Fullerton in 1981, she was widely reported to be the first black woman to head a major university in the western United States.She had previously been a dean at Rutgers University and at Connecticut College in New London, and before that had taught biology and had studied melanoma and cell physiology at Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville, N.Y.As president of Fullerton, Dr. Cobb oversaw a period of substantial growth as she aggressively pursued state and private financing. During her tenure, the university branch’s first on-campus housing was built; its schools of communication, computer science and engineering were established; and its enrollment increased. She retired in 1990.Dr. Cobb arrived in Fullerton after being considered for the presidency of Hunter College, in Manhattan, in 1979 in a contentious atmosphere. She was dean of Douglass College at Rutgers at the time and would have been Hunter’s first black president had she been appointed to succeed Jacqueline G. Wexler, who was retiring after nearly a decade as the college’s president.Initially, the CUNY trustees were also considering Robert S. Hirschfield, chairman of Hunter’s political science department, for the post.Robert J. Kibbee, the CUNY chancellor, recommended Dr. Cobb, but faculty members, students and alumni preferred Dr. Hirschfield, a popular figure on campus. Unable to choose between the two, and with classes resuming, the trustees in September appointed an acting president.They also began to consider other candidates, including Donna E. Shalala, the assistant United States housing secretary, and Clyde H. Wingfield, executive vice president of the University of Miami.An outcry ensued. Supporters of Dr. Hirschfield said he had been overlooked against the wishes of the Hunter community. Supporters of Dr. Cobb, including black civic groups and a group of female scientists, argued that she had been rejected because of racism and sexism. They organized a protest at the college and circulated a petition to academics around New York City seeking to have her appointed.In December 1979, the board chose Dr. Shalala, though students and faculty members said she lacked academic experience. The New York Times later reported that political figures, including former Mayor Robert F. Wagner, had intervened on her behalf.The decision rankled Dr. Cobb, and she eventually went to California.Once at Fullerton, she pushed for greater inclusion of minorities and women in science, technology, engineering and math and helped increase minority enrollment.Jewel Isadora Plummer was born in Chicago on Jan. 17, 1924. Her paternal grandfather was born into slavery and became a pharmacist after being freed. Her father, Frank V. Plummer, was a doctor, and her mother, the former Caribelle Cole, was a physical education teacher.Dr. Cobb was taught from a young age not to let her race or gender hinder her ambition.“I was raised to think that no career was out of bounds,” she once said. “It was always understood that my friends and I would go to college.”After graduating from high school, she attended the University of Michigan but, because black students were not allowed to live on campus there at the time, soon transferred to historically black Talladega College in Alabama.She earned a bachelor’s degree in biology, then received a fellowship to New York University, where she was awarded a master’s degree and, in 1950, a doctorate in cell biology. She returned to Chicago, where she taught and headed the tissue culture laboratory at the University of Illinois.In 1954 she married Roy R. Cobb and moved east, eventually becoming a biology professor at Sarah Lawrence. The marriage ended in divorce.Dr. Cobb was a dean at Connecticut College from 1969 to 1976, when she accepted the position at Douglass College.After retiring from Fullerton, she was president emeritus at California State University, Los Angeles, until 2004, when she returned to the East Coast.In addition to her son, she is survived by a granddaughter.Dr. Cobb received numerous honorary degrees and other honors, and Douglass and Fullerton both named student housing for her. The Fullerton building that bears her name was the campus’s first student residence.
■ Jewish Republican groups speak out — mildly — after the White House omits Jews from an International Holocaust Remembrance Day statement.■ Jordan’s king will get to the vice president’s house on Monday, but not to President Trump.■ The turmoil of the weekend ushered in something new for Washington: the senatorial buddy statement.The Republican Jewish Coalition and the Zionist Organization of America have tried really hard to stay on Mr. Trump’s good side.During the campaign, when Trump supporters unloaded vicious anti-Semitic invectives on journalists, the Republican Jewish Coalition condemned expressions of hate by supporters of all candidates. The Zionist Organization of America latched on to Mr. Trump’s “America First”-erism and backed his conservative, pro-settler pick to be ambassador to Israel, David M. Friedman.When the White House released a statement on Friday commemorating International Holocaust Remembrance Day without mentioning Jews, they were pretty quiet, even as the Anti-Defamation League condemned the omission.But on Sunday, after Hope Hicks, a White House spokeswoman, confirmed that the decision to not mention Jews in the statement was intentional, the two Jewish groups were upset, mildly. Ms. Hicks justified the decision by saying, “Despite what the media reports, we are an incredibly inclusive group and we took into account all of those who suffered.”The Republican Jewish Coalition, not exactly sputtering with rage, released a statement:Morton A. Klein, the national president of Zionist Organization of America, was a little stronger:Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, did not sound all that apologetic on NBC’s “Meet the Press”: “I mean, everyone’s suffering in the Holocaust, including obviously all of the Jewish people affected, and the miserable genocide that occurred is something that we consider to be extraordinarily sad and something that can never be forgotten,” he said.Oh, and he mentioned that some members of Mr. Trump’s family — alluding to Ivanka, his daughter, and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law — are Jewish.Jordan’s king, Abdullah II, is scheduled to have breakfast on Monday with Vice President Mike Pence at the vice president’s residence a few miles from the White House. He would certainly like to get a little closer than that.Amid turmoil over Mr. Trump’s order to halt entries from seven predominantly Muslim countries, the king probably has issues he would like to bring up with the man signing the executive orders. But Mr. Trump does not appear keen to host Abdullah II at the White House, certainly not before Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, pays a visit.Jordan’s king will also be meeting with leaders on Capitol Hill. They are likely to get an earful.Maybe senators are so scared of Mr. Trump that they need a friend for support.First, on Sunday, Senators John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, released a joint statement condemning Mr. Trump’s executive order blocking refugees, visitors and immigrants from seven predominantly Muslim countries. Of course, those two are practically their own political party — called McGraham by some, Jindsey by others.Then Senators Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina, and Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, released their own buddy-gram, positing “unanswered questions and concerns” and some general “uneasy” feelings.Of course, teaming up hasn’t stopped the president from taking his shots, as he did to Mr. McCain and Mr. Graham.But maybe it doesn’t hurt as much when you have a friend.
I really didn’t want to ask you about being hated, but — truly — when I told people I was going to interview you, the first thing out of everyone’s mouth was “I hate that guy.” You’ve taken this reputation with some humor, but has anything ever really gotten to you? I get more frustrated than I get hurt by it. It’s like, come on, I’m just the guy in the suit telling you your team lost.You’re in the enviable position of having a job that, if you wanted, could be your entire life. Is it? Years ago, I did an interview with Colin Cowherd, and he asked what I do at night. I live like a normal human being! I have kids, we’re doing homework, I watch “The Bachelor.” In the industry, that was like heresy. If that had been my only purpose in life — to call home runs and touchdowns — I’d lead a pretty shallow life.In your memoir, you write about suffering from a paralyzed vocal cord from a “surgical procedure,” which we find out is hair-transplant surgery. That was the sensational detail from your book, but you also talk about going through depression, which is a much more vulnerable thing to talk about. Men are wired to just put up with it. At that time, I was pretty much sure that my voice wasn’t going to come back and my career was over, and I was dealing with the guilt and stress of breaking up a marriage that I had had since I was 23. It really weighed me down. And the idea that I couldn’t talk and couldn’t be heard enough to order a Starbucks, it drove me into a solitary confinement of my own making. I ended up on Lexapro and going to therapy.Your job is to talk, but I’m fascinated by the choices of when you choose not to. There’s that viral clip from the Cubs’ National League championship when you were silent for almost three minutes. How do you make the decision about when to be quiet? You don’t need a running dialogue from me over that. It’s almost musical: There’s a rise and fall, a crescendo, and if it’s staying up there, you don’t need me. It’s TV.Has there ever been a time when words have failed you? In 1999, when Ted Williams came out and saluted the fans at the All Star Game at Fenway, I had a huge lump in my throat, and the producer is yelling in my ear to talk, and I couldn’t, thankfully, and it was much better. But usually I’m so wired to see and react and talk that I can usually come up with something if I have to. If I forget who No. 17 is for Green Bay, I can fill in the time with other words while I get down to my board with my eyes to remind myself that 17 is Davante Adams. If I start in, and I’m blanking on who it is, I can say, “Catch at the 15, Green Bay’s got a first down set up by ... Davante Adams.” You can eventually get there. I do it all the time.How far have you ever gotten away from talking about sports? It’s really hard to go off topic. When Colin Kaepernick was kneeling during the national anthem, my producer said I had to cover it. If you want to get yourself into trouble, start talking about racial inequality and police brutality during the course of a football game. You’re trying to wedge it in, by the way, coming back from a commercial break where you’ve got literally nine seconds before the next play. What I try to do is to think about that moment and then write something down, that I know that when we come back, I go to that little corner of the stuff that I prepare. It’s really hard to make a Van Jones-level point between second and third down.We have a little bit of time: Would you like to share an opinion on Kaepernick? The point that I would make is it’s easy for somebody like me to be critical of Colin Kaepernick, but I haven’t suffered some of the same issues that Colin Kaepernick has. On some level, it’s like, how dare I weigh in on what Kaepernick is doing or feeling? Having some sort of an open dialogue about taking a knee, that’s what I was always hoping for, and I think he got there.
John Hurt, an unprepossessing British character actor who vanished inside dozens of roles, from Shakespeare to science fiction, including John Merrick, the hideously deformed title character in the 1980 film “The Elephant Man,” died on Wednesday in Norfolk, England. He was 77.His wife, Anwen Hurt, confirmed his death. In June 2015, Mr. Hurt disclosed that he had pancreatic cancer.Mr. Hurt was a rising stage actor in England in the 1960s but spent most of the remainder of his career compiling a long résumé in movies and on television. A chameleon of a performer, physically unimposing but with a rich, melodic voice, he played a number of leading roles, though he could never be described as a leading man. Critics often seemed challenged to explain the appeal of his presence.In “The Naked Civil Servant” (1975), seen first on television in England, he was Quentin Crisp, a flame-haired raconteur and social butterfly whose forthright flamboyance as a gay man helped push the acceptance of homosexuality in Britain.In a 1979 BBC mini-series, he was Dostoyevsky’s Raskolnikov, the brooding, conscience-stricken killer in “Crime and Punishment.” And in Michael Radford’s 1984 adaptation of George Orwell’s dystopian classic “1984,” he was Winston Smith, the protagonist. Mr. Hurt’s pallor, fearful expression and prominent ears made him an especially feral and unromantic rebel.“His countenance is fishy and bizarre,” Cintra Wilson wrote in Salon in 2004. “He has dark, verminous little eyes, a smirky little mouth full of nicotine-varnished teeth, and that British complexion that evokes a poached worm. Even in his early films, he has eye bags and looks like he put on a face that was at the very bottom of his laundry basket. His body, when it isn’t a little overindulged around the abdomen, is scrawny. He has never, in any role, looked particularly masculine. The characters he plays are generally weak, immoral, murderous, slimy or insane. Yet to gaze upon John Hurt, in almost any role, is to feel a drooly adoration; he is irresistible.”Frequently cast in fantasy films as a credibly real character, Mr. Hurt could be kindly or cruel. He was the wand expert, Mr. Ollivander, in several Harry Potter films, and the führer-like dictator of a barely familiar England in the futuristic “V for Vendetta” (2005).Mr. Hurt slipped so easily into makeup that it often seemed a form of disguise. Professorially bearded with a Brillo pad of silver hair, he was almost unrecognizable as Trevor Bruttenholm, the British paranormal expert who discovers the young title demon in the sci-fi thriller “Hellboy” (2004).In “The Elephant Man,” a film that also starred Anthony Hopkins and Anne Bancroft (it had no connection with Bernard Pomerance’s stage play of the same name), Mr. Hurt found the apotheosis of this quality, the subordination of his own physical being to the character’s. In the role of John Merrick, which required hours of makeup application before each day’s filming, he was unrecognizable as the monstrous-looking but gentle sufferer of a rare affliction that enlarged his head, twisted his musculature and hampered his speech and mobility.For the calm dignity he brought to this performance — a powerful reproof to those who demonized and humiliated Merrick — Mr. Hurt was rewarded with an Oscar nomination for best actor, critical plaudits and the admiration of the film’s director, David Lynch, who said 10 years later, in an interview in The New York Times Magazine: “John Hurt is simply the greatest actor in the world.” (Robert De Niro won the best actor award in 1981.)Though Mr. Hurt was more familiar to audiences in Britain, where he was knighted in 2015, his work there found its way to recognition across the Atlantic as well. He appeared as Richard Rich, a young man in pre-Elizabethan England who yields to his ambition and betrays Sir Thomas More in the film “A Man for All Seasons” (1966). In 1983, he gave an acclaimed performance as the Fool in a television production of “King Lear,” with Laurence Olivier in the title role.And in “Scandal” (1989), he played an affable go-between who paired pretty girls with powerful men in a true-story, tabloid-fodder episode known as the Profumo affair, which ended the career of Britain’s secretary of state for war, John Profumo, and tainted the conservative government of Prime Minister Harold Macmillan.Mr. Hurt began appearing with greater frequency in American films in the late 1970s. The spur was the American broadcast, on PBS, of “I, Claudius,” a BBC series based on Robert Graves’s novels about the Roman empire. Mr. Hurt played the depraved, bloodthirsty emperor Caligula.Some of his movie parts were in Hollywood trifles; in one, “King Ralph” (1991), he was the stodgily irate English opposition to the ascension to the English throne of an American yokel (John Goodman). But even before “The Elephant Man,” he was nominated for an Oscar for his supporting role as a self-lacerating drug addict imprisoned in Turkey in “Midnight Express” (1978).Mr. Hurt achieved cult status in Ridley Scott’s “Alien” in 1979 as Kane, the first victim of the title space creature, who emerges bloodily from his chest. Testament to his appeal as a sacrificial lamb, it was one of many gruesome deaths Mr. Hurt suffered on film; he was stabbed, shot, hanged and burned to a crisp, all more than once. Indeed, in “Spaceballs,” Mel Brooks’s 1987 spoof, he reprised Kane’s death: As the little monster explodes from his rib cage, he says with some exasperation, “Oh, no, not again.”John Vincent Hurt was born in Chesterfield, Derbyshire, England, on Jan. 22, 1940. His father was an Anglican clergyman; his mother an engineer.John appeared in school plays, often in female roles because, he said, he was small and his voice was high. His parents approved of his acting, but not as a profession — “They thought it represented something risqué and populist; it was out of the question,” he told The New York Times Magazine in 1990 — and they sent him to art school instead.He later auditioned for and was accepted by the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London. He made his film debut in 1962 in “The Wild and the Willing,” a drama about academic life in which he played the feckless roommate of a rebellious student played by Ian McShane. The same year, he appeared onstage at the Royal Shakespeare Company in “Infanticide in the House of Fred Ginger,” a controversial work that ended with the gratuitous killing of a child.Through the 1960s and early ’70s, his London stage credits included Harold Pinter’s “The Caretaker” and “The Dumb Waiter”; Tom Stoppard’s “Travesties”; and John Osborne’s “Inadmissible Evidence,” which starred Nicol Williamson.His film credits during this time included the lead role in “Sinful Davey” (1969), a John Huston film based on the autobiography of a 19th-century Scottish rogue; and “10 Rillington Place,” a 1971 drama based on the crimes of a real-life London serial killer, John Christie. Mr. Hurt played Timothy Evans, who in 1950 was wrongly convicted of some of Mr. Christie’s crimes and executed.His theater career had a resurgence in the 1990s. He appeared in London in Turgenev’s “A Month in the Country” with Helen Mirren. Later, at the Gate Theater in Dublin, he took on the title (and only) role in “Krapp’s Last Tape,” Samuel Beckett’s nostalgia-eviscerating portrait of a 69-year-old man revisiting his earlier life by means of listening to an old tape recording. It became a signature role. He performed it in London and appeared in a film version, directed by Atom Egoyan, before making his New York theatrical debut with it at age 71 at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in 2011.“By now Mr. Hurt has the crusty Krapp thoroughly in his well-versed actor’s bones, and there isn’t a moment in his performance in which he is not fully inhabiting the corroded soul of the unforgettable character,” Charles Isherwood, who had seen Mr. Hurt in the role in London 11 years earlier, wrote in The New York Times. “The performance has only grown more prickly, funny and moving with age.”Like many a British actor of the 1960s and ’70s, Mr. Hurt was known as a tippler, and his personal life was touched by tragedy. His partner of many years, the French model Marie-Lise Volpelière-Pierrot, was killed in a riding accident in 1983. He was divorced three times. In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Alexander and Nicholas.Mr. Hurt’s other film roles include a cross-dresser called the Countess in an adaptation of Tom Robbins’s picaresque novel “Even Cowgirls Get the Blues” (1993); Professor Oxley, an archaeologist pal of the title character (Harrison Ford) in “Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull” (2008); the head of British intelligence, known only as Control, in “Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy” (2011), from the John le Carré novel; and a Roman Catholic priest in “Jackie” (2016).“When I say that acting is just a rather more sophisticated way of playing cowboys and Indians, it’s my way of trying to quash all the pretentious crap that’s said about acting,” Mr. Hurt said in 1990. “What I mean is, if you pretend well enough, the audience will believe you.”He added: “In front of the camera you try to do subtle, telling things and hope the director, and the camera, notices. You can feel when you pass something through the camera. The old Alan Ladd story is the best one in that respect. He came back from a long day of shooting out in the dusty Arizona desert and someone said, ‘Did you have a good day, Alan?’ In his soft rasp, he said, ‘Yup, a couple of good looks.’”
John Wetton, a bass player, vocalist and songwriter who adapted the dense, progressive rock he performed with bands like King Crimson into mainstream hits with the supergroup Asia in the early 1980s, died on Tuesday near his home in Bournemouth, England. He was 67.His manager, Martin Darvill, said the cause was colon cancer.A technically adept bassist with a smooth tenor voice, Mr. Wetton came up musically in London in the late 1960s and early ’70s. He was part of a cohort of musicians, in groups like Pink Floyd and Yes, who were known for an ornate, maximalist brand of rock.King Crimson, founded in 1968, was another such band, and Mr. Wetton joined an incarnation of it in 1972, playing alongside the group’s original guitarist, Robert Fripp, the drummer Bill Bruford, formerly of Yes, and others. He appeared on the group’s albums “Larks’ Tongues in Aspic” (1973), “Starless and Bible Black” (1974) and “Red” (1974).Mr. Fripp disbanded the group in the mid-1970s, when it appeared to be on the brink of reaching a wider audience. “I didn’t understand Robert’s reasons then,” Mr. Wetton said in 1999, “and I still don’t.”Mr. Wetton went on to perform with groups like Roxy Music, Uriah Heep and U.K. before forming Asia in 1981 with the drummer Carl Palmer, of Emerson, Lake and Palmer, and the guitarist Steve Howe and the keyboardist Geoff Downes, both of Yes. Asia’s sound was more accessible than the bandmates’ earlier endeavors, and the group became an instant success after the release of its debut album, titled simply “Asia,” in 1982.The group’s single “Heat of the Moment” reached No. 4 on the Billboard chart. With melodious three-part harmony on its chorus, it has often been compared to anthems like Journey’s “Don’t Stop Believing” and Boston’s “More Than a Feeling.” Another Asia single, “Only Time Will Tell” reached No. 17.“Asia” sold millions of copies, and the band was soon playing stadium shows. Audiences were thrilled; critics were often underwhelmed.“In Yes, early King Crimson and Emerson, Lake and Palmer, Asia’s members played music full of technical hurdles and symphonic pomp,” Jon Pareles wrote in reviewing a 1983 concert in The New York Times. “Soon groups like Kansas and Styx picked up on the pomp, minus any experiments. Asia imitates the imitators, inflating conventional pop songs with pseudosymphonic grandeur.”Asia continued releasing albums throughout the 1980s, but none had the success of the first. The band members’ outsize personalities clashed at times, and the lineup changed periodically. In 1991 Mr. Wetton left Asia to focus on other projects.“We hit it at the top and went down,” he said of Asia’s trajectory in an interview with The Birmingham Post in 1998. “We should have hit it somewhere in the middle and gone up.”John Kenneth Wetton was born in Willington, Derbyshire, England, on June 12, 1949, and grew up in Bournemouth. He became interested in music after watching his brother play organ in church.He played with local bands while in high school and, after graduating, moved to London, where he played in the groups Mogul Thrash and Family before joining King Crimson.He married Lisa Nojaim in November. She survives him, as do a son, Dylan, from an earlier relationship; his brother, Robert; and his mother, Margaret Wetton.Asia’s popularity endured long after the band’s apex in the early 1980s. The original group reunited in 2006 and released the album “Phoenix” in 2008.Mr. Wetton was supposed to join the band on a United States tour with Journey beginning this March, but this month his doctors advised him not to participate. Billy Sherwood of Yes is scheduled to replace him.
SAN DIEGO — After signing his scorecard on Sunday, Jon Rahm was hustled to a television interview before he had time to retrieve his Rolex wristwatch from his golf bag. He had arrived in the winner’s circle ahead of schedule, and his management team was scrambling to make sure he represented his sponsors well.One of his handlers gave Rahm the Rolex off his wrist, which Rahm returned as soon as the interview was over.With a closing seven-under-par 65 on the South course at Torrey Pines, Rahm, 22, became the youngest winner of the Farmers Insurance Open. He finished at 13-under 275 for a three-stroke victory over Charles Howell III and Cheng Tsung Pan.Rahm, who tied for third at the Quicken Loans National last summer, won in his fifth start of the 2016-17 wraparound season and in his 17th PGA Tour appearance. He was the first player to make this tournament his first victory on the PGA Tour since Jay Don Blake in 1991.For much of the final round, the players jockeyed for position like thoroughbreds at the nearby Del Mar racetrack. Nine players held at least a share of the Sunday lead before Rahm, a 2016 graduate of Arizona State, seized control of the tournament with two eagles on the final six holes, both on par 5s.On the 529-yard 13th, Rahm hit his second shot out of a fairway bunker to 19 feet and made the putt. On the 536-yard 18th, he drained a 61-footer after reaching the green in two, for one of four 3s recorded on the hole in the round.“It was important to keep composure, keep it going, and I’m just so glad I was able to keep my mind on the game and I was able to think clearly,” said Rahm, who is six months younger than Phil Mickelson was when he won the first of his three titles in this tournament in 1993. “And I’m just so happy it finally happened.”Like Rahm, Mickelson starred at Arizona State. He said he had played enough practice rounds with Rahm to get a full measure of his talent.“I think he’s one of the best players in the world,” Mickelson said, adding, “There’s an intangible that some guys have where they want to have the pressure, they want to be in that tough position, they want to have everything fall on their shoulders. And he has that.”Rahm, a native of Spain, started the day three strokes off the lead, which was held jointly by another youngster, the 24-year-old Patrick Rodgers, and the defending champion, Brandt Snedeker, a veteran trying to join Mickelson and Tiger Woods as one of the event’s three-time winners.Snedeker, an eight-time tour winner, closed with a 73. He said after the third round that he believed his experience would give him an edge on Sunday — “knowing what it takes to get it done here and realizing what this golf course can do to you.”By valuing experience, Snedeker, 36, showed his age. Inspired by Woods, who won the first of his 79 PGA Tour titles in his fifth start as a pro, the young generation has developed a group mind-set that there is no time like the present to start collecting victories.The self-confidence can be contagious. Justin Thomas watched a 21-year-old Jordan Spieth win the Masters in his second trip to Augusta National, and it inspired him to win four tour events before his 24th birthday. Rahm, who tied for third in his first PGA Tour start as a pro, at Congressional Country Club last summer, watched Thomas win three times in this wraparound season and was motivated to produce a victory, lest he fall behind the title train.“I wanted to win this season, especially after getting a little taste of it at Congressional,” he said.Pan, 25, who played at the University of Washington, said the round had had the feel of a Pacific-12 Conference tournament and added, “My anxiety got me a little bit, but I still played great, got a lot of solid up-and-downs for par, so a lot to take to the next tournament.”Great things were expected of Howell after he turned pro in 2000. He won the first of his two tour titles in his 68th start.“These young guys seem to come out not only ready to win, but they do win,” Howell said, adding, “It pushes players like me to keep working hard at it because obviously the generation coming and the guys behind me are better.”
Wearing a furry animal atop his head and a red tie that stretched down below his feet, Jon Stewart returned on Tuesday to CBS’s “Late Show” and resumed his occasional role as a thorn in the side of President Trump while offering wry complaints to the host, Stephen Colbert, about life since Election Day.“I love your outfit,” Mr. Colbert said as Mr. Stewart sat down next to his desk. “Is this your Donald Trump impression?”After giving a quizzical stare, Mr. Stewart replied: “I thought this is how men dressed now. The president sets men’s fashion, and I saw the inauguration. Super long tie, dead animal on head. Boom.”The bulk of Mr. Stewart’s appearance was devoted to his recitation, in a willfully halfhearted Trump accent, of several new executive orders, the president’s preferred style of leadership thus far. The first order: “To secure our border, China shall immediately, and without hesitation, send us their wall. Done. Boom.”To get Mexico to pay for it, “when the wall arrives at the southern border, we shut the lights; we pretend we’re not home,” Mr. Stewart said. “It’s C.O.D.; Mexico has to sign for it.”He also announced: “America now finally has an official language. The new official language of the United States is” baloney. (Mr. Stewart used a far stronger word beginning with “b.”)Mr. Stewart then read a third executive order of greater length:Mr. Stewart’s appearance at the Ed Sullivan Theater was the latest of the rare visits he has made to this or any other television program since stepping down at “The Daily Show,” the Comedy Central news satire he hosted from 1999 to 2015. (That is also where Mr. Colbert first broke through, as a supremely arch correspondent, before going on to host “The Colbert Report.”)Mr. Stewart, who is an executive producer on “The Late Show,” has popped up on the program from time to time, most notably during live episodes that were broadcast in July after the Republican National Convention. A comedy sketch revealed that he had been living in a cabin with Mr. Colbert’s conservative alter ego throughout the 2016 election campaign, unaware that Mr. Trump had clinched the Republican presidential nomination.And in a lengthy, passionate, desk-side monologue, Mr. Stewart had gone after Fox News and its hosts like Sean Hannity, who he felt had been too deferential to Mr. Trump during the campaign.“You feel that you’re this country’s rightful owners,” Mr. Stewart said in the monologue. “There’s only one problem with that. This country isn’t yours. You don’t own it. It never was.”Mr. Trump, while still in civilian life, had been a frequent target of Mr. Stewart’s “Daily Show,” for pushing birtherism, among various opinions he espoused in cable news interviews.Mr. Trump hit back from time to time on his Twitter account — of course — writing messages like “I promise you that I’m much smarter than Jonathan Leibowitz - I mean Jon Stewart @TheDailyShow. Who, by the way, is totally overrated.”In a CBS interview shortly after the presidential election, Mr. Stewart said that Mr. Trump was “not a Republican,” but a “repudiation of Republicans.”“But they will reap the benefit of his victory,” Mr. Stewart said. “In all of their cynicism, I will guarantee you Republicans are going to come to Jesus now about the power of government.”
WITH a new year comes big changes, and keeping a journal is an excellent way to keep track of the challenges each day brings. Why kill trees when there are great apps to use instead?My journaling app of choice is Bear, a free iOS download. While it’s not specifically a journaling app, its note-taking abilities are fantastic. It can also be used to make a useful journal-like document.Bear has an interface that is so minimalist and simple that it is nearly invisible. The screen is essentially split into three columns: The left sidebar helps manage and organize your notes; the middle area is where the notes are listed by the date they were last modified; and the right side is the main place for note writing and editing.What makes Bear stand out is its tagging system to organize notes. You can use hashtags (denoted by the # symbol) to label whichever piece of text you like; you can look up notes by typing the hashtags into a search field. Best of all is the nested hashtag system, which lets you make a hashtag like #party/planning or #party/guests — meaning you can effectively put notes into searchable folders and subfolders by using hashtags.Once you get the hang of using hashtags in notes, it becomes very natural to do, and you’ll wonder why all note-taking apps don’t do this. Bear also lets you control the style of notes you make, including some esoteric ones, like formatting for computer code. Photos can be imported into the text, and notes can be exported in a wide variety of formats.The app includes helpful guides to using it, and has many free components. Paying to upgrade (a $15 annual fee) unlocks even more features, including cross-device syncing and more themes to change the look of your documents. It is available only on iOS.If Bear sounds appealing but you’re an Android user, check out JotterPad. Like Bear, JotterPad is primarily a note-taking app with an intuitive interface that can easily be used to keep a journal. Though it doesn’t have Bear’s flexible hashtag system, it does have other powerful writing, formatting, editing and file exporting tools as well as an automatic saving feature. Many of JotterPad’s features are free.While Bear and JotterPad are useful for journaling as well as writing plenty of other documents, Penzu is an Android app designed specifically for creating diary entries. Penzu’s interface looks attractive and is easy to use. It lets you make text-based notes, which can have embedded images, and entries can be tagged with labels to group them or to search for similar journal entries in the future.Penzu’s strongest features are its internet-based syncing (so journal entries can be retrieved via a web-based interface without a smartphone) and its built-in privacy lock. This means you should be able to make journal entries about your feelings and thoughts with abandon, secure in the knowledge that if someone picks up your phone for a casual snoop, they won’t be able to read what you have written. The app is a free download on Android, and there is also an iOS edition.On iOS, Grid Diary is another journaling app that makes it easy to type a few sentences a day. This app has a very clean interface and, as its name suggests, is based around creating journal entries in a gridlike pattern.The idea is that each element of the grid is supposed to inspire you to make notes about daily experiences in a different way — prompting you, for example, to think about what you’re grateful for, how you spent your money and how to make tomorrow better. The app’s prompts can be customized, and it has an excellent search feature to easily browse through your memories later.The main part of the app is free, and paying $5 to upgrade provides extras like a passcode locking system, cloud syncing and better text formatting options.Narrate on Android is another journaling app that combines an attractive interface and excellent diary-keeping features that let you embed photos and tags alongside the text of journal entries. There is also the option to use location-based tags, which means you could trace the destinations you wrote about during a vacation, for example. Narrate is a free download.Finally, check out Moodnotes, a $4 iOS download that offers a completely different take on the idea of journaling by chronicling your day-to-day mood variations. It’s odd at first, but ultimately satisfying.Quick CallPhotographers who miss the days of wet chemistry film will enjoy the new app Filmborn, which is an attempt to bring some of the effects that specific films had on traditional photos into the digital smartphone era. Free on iOS, it’s a clever and easy-to-use photo-editing app that can definitely add a special look to your imagery.
A federal judge on Friday allowed a case brought by former detainees to move forward against two American psychologists who helped devise the C.I.A.’s now-defunct program to interrogate terrorism suspects using techniques widely considered to be torture.A United States District Court judge, Justin L. Quackenbush, denied a motion by the psychologists that sought to dismiss the case for lack of jurisdiction under provisions of a 2006 law that limits the ability of detainees to challenge their treatment.“This ruling sends the strong signal that anyone who participates in shameful and unlawful government torture can’t count on escaping accountability in a court of law,” said Dror Ladin, a staff attorney for the American Civil Liberties Union, which, with the Gibbons law firm in Newark, represents the former detainees.“The court’s decision is an important win and confirms that our clients can continue their fight to hold accountable the psychologists who devised and profited from the C.I.A. torture program,” Mr. Ladin said.Lawyers for the psychologists, James E. Mitchell and Bruce Jessen, did not respond to requests for comment. They had asked the court to dismiss the case on the grounds that the former detainees were enemy combatants and therefore, according to the Military Commissions Act, legal actions concerning their treatment could not be brought against the United States or its agents.Judge Quackenbush, in Federal District Court in Spokane, Wash., ruled that Dr. Mitchell and Dr. Jessen provided insufficient evidence that the three plaintiffs, held in secret C.I.A. prisons overseas, were determined to have been properly detained as enemy combatants. The men are Gul Rahman, an Afghan citizen who died in custody; Suleiman Abdullah Salim, a Tanzanian; and Mohamed Ahmed Ben Soud, a Libyan. The lawsuit alleges the men underwent torture, which is illegal under international law.The psychologists, who worked as independent contractors for the C.I.A. and later formed a consulting company with headquarters in Spokane, also failed to establish that they were agents of the United States government, Judge Quackenbush wrote.An earlier attempt to dismiss the case was also rejected. The psychologists have denied allegations they committed torture or war crimes. A trial is scheduled for June.
WASHINGTON — A federal judge in Brooklyn came to the aid of scores of refugees and others who were trapped at airports across the United States on Saturday after an executive order signed by President Trump, which sought to keep many foreigners from entering the country, led to chaotic scenes across the globe.The judge’s ruling blocked part of the president’s actions, preventing the government from deporting some arrivals who found themselves ensnared by the presidential order. But it stopped short of letting them into the country or issuing a broader ruling on the constitutionality of Mr. Trump’s actions.The high-stakes legal case played out on Saturday amid global turmoil, as the executive order signed by the president slammed shut the borders of the United States for an Iranian scientist headed to a lab in Massachusetts, a Syrian refugee family headed to a new life in Ohio and countless others across the world.The president’s order, enacted with the stroke of a pen at 4:42 p.m. Friday, suspended entry of all refugees to the United States for 120 days, barred Syrian refugees indefinitely, and blocked entry into the United States for 90 days for citizens of seven predominantly Muslim countries: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.The Department of Homeland Security said that the order also barred green card holders from those countries from re-entering the United States. In a briefing for reporters, White House officials said that green card holders from the seven affected countries who are outside the United States would need a case-by-case waiver to return.Mr. Trump — in office just a week — found himself accused of constitutional and legal overreach by two Iraqi immigrants, defended by the American Civil Liberties Union. Meanwhile, large crowds of protesters turned out at airports around the country to denounce Mr. Trump’s ban on the entry of refugees and people from seven predominantly Muslim countries.Lawyers who sued the government to block the White House order said the judge’s decision could affect an estimated 100 to 200 people who were detained upon arrival at American airports.Judge Ann M. Donnelly of Federal District Court in Brooklyn, who was nominated by former President Barack Obama, ruled just before 9 p.m. that implementing Mr. Trump’s order by sending the travelers home could cause them “irreparable harm.” She said the government was “enjoined and restrained from, in any manner and by any means, removing individuals” who had arrived in the United States with valid visas or refugee status.The ruling does not appear to force the administration to let in people otherwise blocked by Mr. Trump’s order who have not yet traveled to the United States.The judge’s one-page ruling came swiftly after lawyers for the A.C.L.U. testified in her courtroom that one of the people detained at an airport was being put on a plane to be deported back to Syria at that very moment. A government lawyer, Gisela A. Westwater, who spoke to the court by phone from Washington, said she simply did not know.Hundreds of people waited outside of the courthouse chanting, “Set them free!” as lawyers made their case. When the crowd learned that Judge Donnelly had ruled in favor of the plaintiffs, a rousing cheer went up in the crowd.Minutes after the judge’s ruling in New York City, another judge, Leonie M. Brinkema of Federal District Court in Virginia, issued a temporary restraining order for a week to block the removal of any green card holders being detained at Dulles International Airport.In a statement released early Sunday morning, the Department of Homeland Security said it would continue to enforce all of the president’s executive orders, even while complying with judicial decisions. “Prohibited travel will remain prohibited,” the department said in a statement, adding that the directive was “a first step towards re-establishing control over America’s borders and national security.”Around the nation, security personnel at major international airports had new rules to follow, though the application of the order appeared chaotic and uneven. Humanitarian organizations delivered the bad news to overseas families that had overcome the bureaucratic hurdles previously in place and were set to travel. And refugees already on flights when the order was signed on Friday found themselves detained upon arrival.“We’ve gotten reports of people being detained all over the country,” said Becca Heller, the director of the International Refugee Assistance Project. “They’re literally pouring in by the minute.”Earlier in the day, at the White House, Mr. Trump shrugged off the sense of anxiety and disarray, suggesting that there had been an orderly rollout. “It’s not a Muslim ban, but we were totally prepared,” he said. “It’s working out very nicely. You see it at the airports, you see it all over.”But to many, the government hardly seemed prepared for the upheaval that Mr. Trump’s actions put into motion.There were numerous reports of students attending American universities who were blocked from returning to the United States from visits abroad. One student said in a Twitter post that he would be unable to study at Yale. Another who attends the Massachusetts Institute of Technology was refused permission to board a plane. A Sudanese graduate student at Stanford University was blocked for hours from entering the country.Human rights groups reported that legal permanent residents of the United States who hold green cards were being stopped in foreign airports as they sought to return from funerals, vacations or study abroad. There was widespread condemnation of the order, from religious leaders, business executives, academics, political leaders and others. Mr. Trump’s supporters offered praise, calling it a necessary step on behalf of the nation’s security.Homeland Security officials said on Saturday night that 109 people who were already in transit to the United States when the order was signed were denied access; 173 were stopped before boarding planes heading to America. Eighty-one people who were stopped were eventually given waivers to enter the United States, officials said.Legal residents who have a green card and are currently in the United States should meet with a consular officer before leaving the country, a White House official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, told reporters. Officials did not clarify the criteria that would qualify someone for a waiver, other than that it would be granted “in the national interest.”But the week-old administration appeared to be implementing the order chaotically, with agencies and officials around the globe interpreting it in different ways.The Stanford student, Nisrin Omer, a legal permanent resident, said she was held at Kennedy International Airport in New York for about five hours but was eventually allowed to leave the airport. Others who were detained appeared to be still in custody or sent back to their home countries.White House aides claimed on Saturday that there had been consultations with State Department and homeland security officials about carrying out the order. “Everyone who needed to know was informed,” one aide said.But that assertion was denied by multiple officials with knowledge of the interactions, including two officials at the State Department. Leaders of Customs and Border Protection and of Citizenship and Immigration Services — the two agencies most directly affected by the order — were on a telephone briefing on the new policy even as Mr. Trump signed it on Friday, two officials said.The A.C.L.U.’s legal case began with two Iraqis detained at Kennedy Airport, the named plaintiffs in the case. One was en route to reunite with his wife and son in Texas. The other had served alongside Americans in Iraq for a decade.Shortly after noon on Saturday, Hameed Khalid Darweesh, an interpreter who worked for more than a decade on behalf of the United States government in Iraq, was released. After nearly 19 hours of detention, Mr. Darweesh began to cry as he spoke to reporters, putting his hands behind his back and miming handcuffs.“What I do for this country? They put the cuffs on,” Mr. Darweesh said. “You know how many soldiers I touch by this hand?”The other man the lawyers are representing, Haider Sameer Abdulkhaleq Alshawi, who was en route to Houston, was released Saturday night.Before the two men were released, one of the lawyers, Mark Doss, a supervising attorney at the International Refugee Assistance Project, asked an official, “Who is the person we need to talk to?”“Call Mr. Trump,” said the official, who declined to identify himself.While the judge’s ruling means that none of the detainees will be sent back immediately, lawyers for the plaintiffs in the case expressed concern that all those at the airports would now be put in detention, pending a resolution of the case.The White House said the restrictions would protect “the United States from foreign nationals entering from countries compromised by terrorism” and allow the administration time to put in place “a more rigorous vetting process.” But critics condemned Mr. Trump over the collateral damage on people who had no sinister intentions in trying to come to the United States.Peaceful protests began forming Saturday afternoon at Kennedy Airport, where nine travelers had been detained upon arrival at Terminal 7 and two others at Terminal 4, an airport official said. Similar scenes were playing out at other airports across the nation.An official message to all American diplomatic posts around the world provided instructions about how to treat people from the countries affected: “Effective immediately, halt interviewing and cease issuance and printing” of visas to the United States.Internationally, confusion turned to panic as travelers found themselves unable to board flights bound for the United States. In Dubai and Istanbul, airport and immigration officials turned passengers away at boarding gates and, in at least one case, ejected a family from a flight it had boarded.Seyed Soheil Saeedi Saravi, a promising young Iranian scientist, had been scheduled to travel in the coming days to Boston, where he had been awarded a fellowship to study cardiovascular medicine at Harvard, according to Thomas Michel, the professor who was to supervise the research fellowship.But Professor Michel said the visas for the student and his wife had been indefinitely suspended.“This outstanding young scientist has enormous potential to make contributions that will improve our understanding of heart disease, and he has already been thoroughly vetted,” Professor Michel wrote to The New York Times.A Syrian family of six who have been living in a Turkish refugee camp since fleeing their home in 2014 had been scheduled to arrive on Tuesday in Cleveland. Instead, the family’s trip has been called off.“Everyone is just so heartbroken, so angry, so sad,” said Danielle Drake, the community manager for US Together, an agency that resettles refugees.A Christian family of six from Syria said in an email to Representative Charlie Dent, Republican of Pennsylvania, that they were being detained on Saturday morning at Philadelphia International Airport despite having legal paperwork, green cards and visas that had been approved.In the case of the two Iraqis held at Kennedy Airport, the legal filings by his lawyers say that Mr. Darweesh was granted a special immigrant visa on Jan. 20, the same day Mr. Trump was sworn in as president.A husband and father of three, Mr. Darweesh arrived at Kennedy Airport with his family. Mr. Darweesh’s wife and children made it through passport control and customs, but agents of Customs and Border Protection detained him.In Istanbul, during a stopover on Saturday, passengers reported that security officers had entered a plane after everyone had boarded and ordered a young Iranian woman and her family to leave the aircraft.Iranian green card holders who live in the United States were blindsided by the decree while on vacation in Iran, finding themselves in a legal limbo and unsure whether they would be able to return to America.“How do I get back home now?” said Daria Zeynalia, a green card holder who was visiting family in Iran. He had rented a house and leased a car, and would be eligible for citizenship in November. “What about my job? If I can’t go back soon, I’ll lose everything.”
In a highly unusual turn of events for a sitting president, a federal judge in Florida on Wednesday ordered a golf resort owned by President Trump to pay $5.7 million for refusing to refund deposits to members who wanted to resign from the club.In his ruling, the judge said that Mr. Trump, by sending a letter in late 2012 denying access to members who wanted to resign from the Trump National Golf Club in Jupiter — a process that could take years — had set off a contract clause that should have resulted in an immediate refund of their membership fees. Instead, the money was withheld.The decision is the first court judgment against a company owned by Mr. Trump since he became president last month, and underscores that while Mr. Trump has stepped away from the operations of his company, he is certain to remain dogged by legal controversies connected to his business.At his new hotel in Washington, Mr. Trump is suing two celebrity chefs for breach of contract. The two men backed out of the Trump International Hotel development in 2015 after Mr. Trump made inflammatory comments about Mexican immigrants. Separately, the federal government owns the building that houses the hotel, and some legal experts have said that Mr. Trump may be in violation of his lease, which appears to prohibit federal elected officials from the building.And last month, a lawsuit was filed in federal court in Manhattan contending that Mr. Trump had violated the emoluments clause of the Constitution by allowing his hotels and other businesses to accept payments from foreign governments.Mr. Trump has not sold any of his assets, which include golf courses, commercial real estate and marketing agreements. Rather he has handed the operations of his company over to his eldest sons, Donald Jr. and Eric., a move he hopes will reduce the appearance of conflict of interest.Wednesday’s ruling — by Judge Kenneth Marra of Federal District Court in West Palm Beach, an appointee of President George W. Bush’s — calls for the club to pay $4.85 million in withheld fees to 65 club members involved in the lawsuit, plus an additional $925,000 in interest and other costs. As a result, those members will receive refunds of $35,000 to $200,000, depending on their level of membership in the club.Amanda Miller, a spokeswoman for the Trump Organization, said the company planned to appeal.“At the time Trump purchased the club, it was suffering financially, making it unlikely that these members would ever get back their deposits,” Ms. Miller said in a statement. “At trial, we presented overwhelming evidence that the plaintiffs’ memberships were never recalled and that the plaintiffs had waived this argument during the course of the litigation.”The dispute at the Jupiter club centered on contracts signed by club members with the facility’s previous owner, Ritz-Carlton. To join, members paid initiation fees as high as $210,000 depending on the type of membership that they wanted. But under Ritz-Carlton’s rules those deposits were refundable when a member resigned.That process, however, could take years and while members on the resignation list waited for their turn to come up they could still use the club so long as they paid annual fees and other costs like food and beverage minimums.That all changed in 2012 when the Trump Organization bought the Jupiter club. Soon afterward, Mr. Trump sent a letter to members saying that those who wanted to resign were no longer welcome there. “I do not want them to utilize the club, nor do I want their dues,” the letter read.After club members sued, Mr. Trump testified in 2015 during a pretrial deposition that although he had signed the letter, it was his second-eldest son, Eric Trump, who was in charge of policies at the family’s golf courses.“Eric is much more familiar with this club,” his father said. “He runs it.”In his pretrial deposition, Eric Trump testified that nothing had changed and that club members seeking to resign had been allowed to use the club so long as they paid their dues.That claim, however, was disputed at trial last year.One member on the resignation list, Richard Slawson, testified that the club’s membership manager told him soon after the Trumps took it over that the facility was off-limits. But he continued to receive $6,000 bills for annual dues and thousands in minimum charges for food and beverages that were never consumed.“I couldn’t believe that we were charged that when we were not allowed to use the club,” Mr. Slawson, a Florida lawyer, said in a recent telephone interview.Confronted with such testimony, the younger Mr. Trump during his court testimony backed off his assertions and acknowledged he had been mistaken.“He made himself our strongest witness,” a plaintiff’s lawyer, Bradley Edwards, said about Eric Trump. “ There was no way to reconcile his prior testimony with his testimony at trial.”
The federal judge who blocked part of President Trump’s executive order on immigration on Saturday night worked for years in the Manhattan district attorney’s office, where she was one of the lead prosecutors on the high-profile Tyco International fraud trial.Colleagues remembered the judge, Ann M. Donnelly, as an astute lawyer unfazed by the spotlight. She found herself in its glare unexpectedly on Saturday night, when she heard an emergency appeal from the American Civil Liberties Union challenging the executive order barring refugees. She granted a temporary stay, ordering that refugees and others detained at airports across the United States not be sent back to their home countries.Enforcing Mr. Trump’s order by sending the travelers home could cause them “irreparable harm,” Judge Donnelly ruled.The order, just before 9 p.m., capped an intense day of protests across the country by opponents of the order, which suspended the entry of all refugees to the United States for 120 days, barred Syrian refugees indefinitely and blocked entry for 90 days for citizens of seven predominantly Muslim countries.“Today, Judge Donnelly stated in unequivocal terms that this administration — one with no apparent historical and constitutional rudder — will not go unchecked or unbalanced,” said Eric M. Arnone, a criminal defense lawyer in Manhattan who worked with her in the prosecutor’s office in the mid-2000s.Judge Donnelly was nominated to the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York by President Barack Obama and was confirmed by the Senate in a 95-2 vote in 2015.She had a “sterling reputation” when she worked in the Manhattan prosecutor’s office from 1984 to 2009, said another former colleague, Linda A. Fairstein, who retired as chief of the special victims unit.“I worked with a lot of great lawyers in public service,” Ms. Fairstein said in an interview. “There is a fairness about her to the core that is just extraordinary.”In 1989, Judge Donnelly was assigned to the Major Offense Career Criminal Program, a specialized bureau that focused on repeat offenders and violent felons, according to the office of Senator Chuck Schumer, who recommended her for the federal court. She served in a number of management positions, including as chief of the Family Violence and Child Abuse Bureau and as senior trial counsel.Andrew M. Lankler, a partner at Baker Botts LLP, who served in the office from 1990 to 1996, said, “She’s an extremely intelligent, deliberative and conscientious person uniquely unswayed by anything other than justice.”Daniel J. Horwitz, a partner at McLaughlin & Stern LLP, who worked in the district attorney’s office from 1991 to 2000, described her in a message as “tenacious, exceedingly bright but eminently fair with an even temperament.”He added, “She’s exactly the type of judge you want to appear in front of.”Ms. Fairstein noted that Judge Donnelly was steadfast in the face of high-profile cases that gained widespread attention. She was a lead in the prosecution of L. Dennis Kozlowski, the Tyco chief executive who was convicted in 2005 for looting nearly $100 million from the company, for which he served six and a half years in prison.She remained the calm center of the spinning wheel of the trial, which lasted for months, Ms. Fairstein recalled.“She will not be perturbed by the storm around her,” she said, adding that Judge Donnelly has “a firm moral compass.”Mr. Arnone said in an email that “she had nothing but a great reputation for being a fair and diligent prosecutor.”She previously served as a judge on the New York State Court of Claims and in the Supreme Courts in the Bronx, Brooklyn and Manhattan.Cyrus R. Vance Jr., now the Manhattan district attorney, who worked as an assistant in the office with Ms. Donnelly, cited the breadth of her experience.“Anne has tried every kind of case as a judge and a prosecutor, is a truly experienced and tough trial lawyer, and still remains one of the most genuinely good and nice people I know,” Mr. Vance said in a text message early Sunday. “The federal bench is lucky to have her and I miss her as a state court judge in Manhattan.”Judge Donnelly, who was born in Royal Oak, Mich., received her law degree from the Ohio State University College of Law in 1984.
“M. Butterfly,” the gender-bending play about a French diplomat who has a lengthy affair with a Chinese opera singer, will be revived on Broadway this fall with Clive Owen starring and Julie Taymor directing.The drama, inspired by a true story, won the Tony Award for best new play in 1988, when it starred John Lithgow and B. D. Wong (who won a Tony). The playwright David Henry Hwang is making significant revisions to the script for the revival, incorporating recent discoveries about the relationship between Bernard Boursicot, who was an embassy worker, and Shi Pei Pu, a man whom Mr. Boursicot had believed for years to be a woman. The two were convicted of espionage in 1986. They were pardoned a year later.Mr. Owen, a British actor (“Closer”), will play the diplomat, named Rene Gallimard in the play. The play will be his second on Broadway — he made his Broadway debut in a 2015 revival of “Old Times,” by Harold Pinter.The role of the singer, named Song Liling in the play, has not yet been cast.The revival will mark Ms. Taymor’s first return to Broadway since “Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark,” a troubled production from which she was dismissed. She is best known as the creative genius behind the stage adaptation of “The Lion King,” for which she won two Tony Awards in 1998, for direction and costume design, and which is still going strong on Broadway and in productions around the world. Her most recent Off Broadway productions, including “Grounded” at the Public Theater and “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” at Theater for a New Audience, won significant critical praise.The “M. Butterfly” revival, produced by Nelle Nugent, Steve Traxler, Kenneth Teaton, Benjamin Feldman and Doug Morris, the chief executive of Sony Music, is scheduled to open on Oct. 26 at an unspecified theater.
HOUSTON — If it seems that Julio Jones does not fit the mold of a star wide receiver in the N.F.L., that may be because he did not grow up watching football. Ever. A fan of track and field and an avid watcher of the Olympics, he summed up his history of football fandom as having once watched a highlight clip of Barry Sanders.Jones, the Atlanta Falcons star, has spent the last three seasons locked in a rivalry of sorts — for recognition as the N.F.L.’s top receiver — with Antonio Brown of the Pittsburgh Steelers. But while Brown has become a celebrity along the lines of Michael Irvin or Terrell Owens off the field, Jones has seemed content to gain the respect of everyone in the game, with little use for fame beyond that.“He is a quiet guy,” said Malcolm Butler, the Patriots cornerback who will probably be covering Jones in Super Bowl LI on Sunday. “He is one of the best receivers in the league, and you never hear him complain about anything. You never hear much about him.”The closest thing to controversy around Jones ahead of the Super Bowl has come courtesy of Butler. Fans dug up a Twitter post from 2012 in which Butler boldly stated, “I wanna check julio jones...lol......real talk doe..”Butler took some ribbing over the post, which he wrote when he was a student at Western Arkansas, but he said it was more aspirational than egotistic.“Dreams come true, just like that tweet did,” Butler said of the prospect of finally facing Jones. “To all the guys in college across the globe, if you believe in yourself, that is an example right there.”Jones did not bite when the Twitter post was repeated to him on Monday, in the players’ first session with the news media.“That was an old tweet, but he said he wanted to cover me,” Jones said. “It’s football. He’s a cornerback, and I’m a wide receiver. It’s bound to happen.”For most cornerbacks, defending Jones is more nightmare than dream. Listed at 6 feet 4 inches and 220 pounds, he is the total package at wide receiver: big enough to outmuscle any defensive back for a catch, and fast enough to outrun any of them once he has the ball. He has made 497 catches over his first six seasons, which ranks eighth for a receiver in that time frame and gives him 51 more than Jerry Rice, the N.F.L.’s top career receiver, had at the same point in his career.Any uncertainty about Jones’s ability to handle big moments disappeared in Atlanta’s 44-21 win over Green Bay in the N.F.C. championship game; he had nine catches for 180 yards and two touchdowns. Jones pulled down a number of seemingly impossible catches, including one on which he caught the ball as a defender flipped him over, and held onto it while landing on his head.His most impressive play was a 73-yard touchdown in which he got more than 60 of the yards after the catch. The play started with LaDarius Gunter, a Packers defensive back, illegally holding Jones as he broke downfield. A penalty flag flew, but Jones did not need the do-over. Gunter had no chance of keeping up with Jones, who left the cornerback sprawled on the turf shortly after the catch and then tossed Damarious Randall, another Green Bay defensive back, to the ground with a stiff-arm before strutting into the end zone.This weekend may be Jones’s chance to surpass Brown in celebrity. As a Steelers rookie, Brown made his only appearance in the Super Bowl, catching one pass for 1 yard.Over the last three seasons, their statistics have been remarkable similar. Jones, who will turn 28 on Friday, has caught 323 passes for 4,873 yards and 20 touchdowns, while Brown, 28, who has played two more games, has 371 receptions for 4,816 yards and 35 touchdowns.In Wednesday’s interview session, Jones made what almost passed for a provocative comment in the Super Bowl buildup. Asked if any player in the N.F.L. could contain him in single coverage, he replied: “One-on-one? No, I do not.” He said it dryly, as if simply stating a wildly understood fact.Jones’s teammates said that any perception that he was dull did not hold up when the cameras, tape recorders and notebooks were gone.“He may seem that way to you guys because you’re not with him all the time,” said Mohamed Sanu, the Falcons’ second-leading receiver, who said Jones was one of the biggest reasons he had chosen to sign with Atlanta when he was a free agent. “To us, he’s Julio. He’s a funny guy, he’s always having a good time. He’s not really that quiet among his brothers.”Still, when asked if he could ever see Jones following Brown’s path to competition on “Dancing With The Stars,” Sanu balked.“That’s not Julio’s forte,” he said. “That’s not the type of thing he would do.”Dwight Freeney, the Falcons’ veteran defensive end, went a step further.“Never,” Freeney said laughing. “You’ll never ever see him doing that.”
A second jury is now deciding the fate of a former bodega worker accused of kidnapping and killing Etan Patz — a 6-year-old boy who vanished as he walked to a school bus stop in 1979 — once again raising the prospect of a resolution to a mystery that has hung over New York City for nearly four decades.After three months of testimony in State Supreme Court, the jury began its deliberations in Manhattan on Wednesday, weighing whether the worker, Pedro Hernandez, was guilty of the charges against him.As this group of jurors begins the process, there is another group uniquely able to understand the emotional pressures they face and the issues they must confront in a case fraught with complications.“You’re extremely nervous, right?” said Cyndi Cueto, who was a juror at Mr. Hernandez’s first trial, which ended in a mistrial in 2015. “Because now you know it’s in your hands.”She added: “We also wanted to go into that room, you know, open-minded. No matter what, you might be leaning a certain way, but you want to remain open-minded.”Still, members of the earlier jury also described a sense of relief as their deliberations began: Finally, the moment had arrived when they could discuss what they had heard in court.“It’s almost like getting a great weight off your shoulders,” said Adam Sirois, the lone juror who did not vote to convict Mr. Hernandez at the first trial.Justice Maxwell Wiley, who is presiding over the case, assembled the new panel on Wednesday to explain the charges against Mr. Hernandez and the rules governing the deliberations. The eight men and four women of the jury left the courtroom at 3 p.m. to start their discussions.Mr. Hernandez, who was an 18-year-old high school dropout working at a corner store in the SoHo neighborhood when Etan disappeared, was arrested in 2012 after his brother-in-law reported his suspicions to the authorities.The prosecution’s case against Mr. Hernandez is based mostly on his confessions to investigators and other incriminating statements he made over the years. But by raising questions about his mental health and the possibility of a different killer, defense lawyers stirred enough doubt to leave the first jury deadlocked. Justice Wiley declared a mistrial after 18 days of deliberations failed to yield a verdict.That outcome has loomed over the retrial, which started in October. It was evident in the jury-selection process, described by the judge as “extraordinarily long,” and in the oblique references to an “earlier proceeding” that lawyers, who did not mention the first trial in front of the jury, made as they questioned witnesses about their previous testimony.Members of the first jury offered to help the lawyers strengthen their cases. Many of those who favored conviction met with prosecutors and, in some instances, wrote lengthy memorandums offering guidance on points to refine and even lines to use during the trial. (One suggested calling Mr. Hernandez a “serial confessor.”)Some, like Ms. Cueto, have attended the retrial, sitting near Etan’s father, Stanley Patz.“I’ve been here every day,” Ms. Cueto said after prosecutors finished their closing arguments on Tuesday. She said that taking in the second trial had confirmed her opinion of the case and “makes our decision even more certain.”It has been difficult for some former jurors to pull away. Some held a vigil in 2015 on the anniversary of Etan’s disappearance.“Eighteen of us spent three months confined for hours together in the jury room,” Edwin Thompson, a former juror, said.“We became friends,” Mr. Thompson added, before referring to tensions that linger over divisions that emerged during deliberations. “We learned to respect one another,” he said, “with the notable exception of the holdout.”That holdout, Mr. Sirois, has written about the case, and he attended the retrial’s opening statements and the judge’s instructions to the jury on Wednesday.He said that some of his fellow jurors “did not want to think about the possibility of Mr. Hernandez being innocent.”Regardless of what they believed, the former jurors acknowledged the difficult issues they faced in their deliberations.Etan’s remains were never found, and prosecutors did not have scientific evidence from crime scenes to buttress their case. The defense has suggested a version of events in which Jose Ramos, a convicted child molester, may have been responsible.There is also the issue of whether Mr. Hernandez might have falsely confessed to the killing, with the defense arguing that he has limited intelligence and a personality disorder that makes it hard for him to separate fantasy from reality. Mr. Hernandez’s lawyers argue that his confessions resulted from pressure applied by detectives and reflected a fiction he had concocted.“Discounting confessions is a hard task,” said Shari Seidman Diamond, a professor of law and psychology at Northwestern University who studies jury behavior. “It’s hard for judges. It’s hard for jurors. It’s hard for observers. And that becomes fairly powerful evidence.”Mr. Hernandez told law enforcement officials and mental health experts that he encountered a boy outside the bodega the morning Etan disappeared. He said he lured the boy into the store’s basement with the promise of a soda and then strangled him before putting his body in a box and leaving it with garbage.His confessions, and incriminating statements he made to others, including his former wife and members of a church group, were a critical element for some jurors.“In each instance, he was lucid, cogent and cooperative,” Mr. Thompson said. “He said, ‘O.K., you got me,’ then went on to explain how he murdered Etan and disposed of him.”Mr. Hernandez, Mr. Thompson added, “was a most credible witness against himself — what’s not to believe?”Mr. Sirois said he found the credibility of Mr. Hernandez’s former wife, with whom he had an acrimonious relationship, and the others who heard his admissions “extremely weak.” The testimony about Mr. Ramos also struck Mr. Sirois as worthy of consideration and contributed to his doubts.“That was the part of the case that really gave the other jurors the most pause,” he said, calling Mr. Ramos a “much more likely suspect.”In a case of such intense public interest, Professor Diamond said, jurors were probably aware of the attention and scrutiny their decision would receive. “The accountability factor is something that jurors do feel,” she said.She said that in her experience studying juries, she had found that, above all, jurors were driven to “get it right,” adding, “Whatever that means to them.”
■ The turmoil at the Justice Department over President Trump’s executive order on immigration raises the pressure on senators to confirm, or block, Senator Jeff Sessions’s appointment as attorney general.■ Mr. Trump will meet on Tuesday morning with the pharmaceutical industry, which he said was “getting away with murder.”■ The president has picked a veteran of the Homeland Security Department to be its No. 2.The late-night firing of Acting Attorney General Sally Q. Yates over her refusal to defend Mr. Trump’s executive order banning refugees, immigrants and visitors from seven Muslim countries has put a lot of people in a sticky position.Mr. Trump, for one. By firing Ms. Yates, he may have gotten rid of the only Senate-confirmed official at the Justice Department who was senior enough to sign off on his requests for secret surveillance warrants. Without her, his government may have lost a crucial tool in the fight against terrorism, although a White House official denied it Monday night.Which brings up the other people in a sticky position: the senators from both parties who have expressed misgivings over or outright opposition to the president’s executive order. Democrats now have every reason to drag out the confirmation fight over Mr. Sessions as long as possible, leaving Mr. Trump’s order undefended against a growing list of opponents.Mr. Trump seems to understand this.But what about Republican senators like John McCain of Arizona, Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, Ben Sasse of Nebraska and Cory Gardner of Colorado?They have leverage to demand changes before they seat Mr. Sessions at the Justice Department. But as the fight drags on, so does the lag in warrants. The pressure will only intensify.Shortly before his inauguration, Mr. Trump declared that the pharmaceutical industry was “getting away with murder.”“Pharma has a lot of lobbies, a lot of lobbyists and a lot of power, and there’s very little bidding on drugs,” he said during an event at Trump Tower in New York. “We’re the largest buyer of drugs in the world, and yet we don’t bid properly.”The statement aligned him with Democrats, who have long argued that the government should be allowed to bargain for lower drug prices for Medicare and Medicaid, a position fought tooth and nail by Republicans.On Tuesday at 9 a.m., the president will “meet with pharma,” the White House schedule reads. It doesn’t say “representatives of the pharmaceutical industry” or “drug company executives” — just “pharma,” with no names or details offered.Should be interesting.Mr. Trump nominated Elaine C. Duke, a Virginia businesswoman, on Monday night to be the deputy secretary of homeland security, the No. 2 position at the Homeland Security Department.Ms. Duke, the owner of Elaine Duke and Associates in Falls Church, served from 2008 to 2010 as under secretary for management at the department, a position that required Senate confirmation. She was responsible for managing the department’s $47 billion budget and overseeing its $17 billion contracting programs. In 2015, she was appointed to the homeland security secretary’s Homeland Security Advisory Council, a committee that provides policy recommendations.According to her company’s website, Ms. Duke holds a bachelor’s degree in business management and an M.B.A.Also on Monday, the president replaced Daniel H. Ragsdale, the acting director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an agency within the Homeland Security Department that identifies, arrests, detains and deports immigrants who are in the country illegally. He appointed Thomas D. Homan as the new acting director. Mr. Homan, a former Border Patrol police officer, was the agency’s executive associate director of enforcement and removal operations.Mr. Ragsdale, who was appointed deputy director in May 2012, was named acting director this month. He will return to the deputy director position.
Some dramas derive their potency from the struggle involved in simply getting through the day. That’s very much the situation in which we find Tamsin (Erin Doherty), the anxious 19-year-old at the capacious heart of “Wish List,” the smashing debut play from Katherine Soper that is running in the Royal Court’s upstairs studio theater through Feb. 11.In 2015, Ms. Soper’s play won the Bruntwood Prize for Playwriting, the same accolade that two years earlier went to her fellow newcomer Anna Jordan’s “Yen,” now playing Off Broadway after its own Royal Court engagement this time last year. Both plays share an interest in people who lead tough, neglected lives and find the humanity amid a landscape that carries with it a sizable amount of hurt.At the warehouse where she logs in for work in ill-fitting boots, Tamsin is little more than a cog in an ever-churning machine, a point made clear by the conveyor belt that defines the designer Ana Ines Jabara-Pita’s set. Packing boxes to a merciless timetable and under the watchful eye of a supervisor (Aleksandar Mikic) who may in fact be more sympathetic than he seems, Tamsin sustains cuts to her body and her already fragile ego. And, yes, she would like to call her brother during a break, if only she were allowed access to her phone.That 17-year-old sibling is the obsessive-compulsive Dean (Joseph Quinn, fully compelling), a damaged soul who has been deemed by the benefit system to be fit for work when the reality is that he can barely leave the bathroom, where he spends hours mixing gel in his hair. The fact that the two have lost their mother is mentioned only in passing in a narrative in which pragmatism is seen to matter most: Tamsin simply must clock the requisite hours to earn the money needed to keep food in the cupboard — notably the soup that plays a crucial part in the (messy) denouement.A fourth character is introduced in the form of Luke (the winning Shaquille Ali-Yebuah), a live-wire co-worker of Tamsin’s who strikes her fancy and encourages this budding brainiac — she knows all about white dwarfs, among other physics-releated matters — to dream of something more. Will her wish list be achieved? Ms. Soper and her expert director, Matthew Xia, don’t say beyond ending the play with a search for matches. As the saying goes, let there be light.If “Wish List” movingly inhabits the here and now, the 1968 Broadway musical “Promises, Promises” is showing its age — at least if its current revival at the Off West End Southwark Playhouse, through Feb. 18, is any gauge. Adapted from the Oscar-winning Billy Wilder film “The Apartment” (1960), the show tells of a junior accounts executive named Chuck Baxter (here played by Gabriel Vick) who lets his (male, natch) higher-ups at work use his Upper West Side apartment for any number of clandestine sexual assignations — the ethics of the situation be damned.The quid pro quo is that Chuck is hoping to be fast-tracked for advancement, even if you can’t help wondering why one of these highfliers doesn’t just take a membership at the Yale Club for his erotic rendezvous and be done with it.From the Wilder source, the composer Burt Bacharach and the lyricist Hal David conjoined a largely buoyant, fizzy score with a book by Neil Simon that can be at odds with the darker aspects of the material — a near-death in the second act included. That grim turn of events nearly befalls Fran Kubelik (a strong-voiced Daisy Maywood), who would be Chuck’s beloved if she weren’t also the very woman Chuck’s egotistic boss, Sheldrake (Paul Robinson), has been secretly courting himself.The sexual politics of the piece raised eyebrows in the show’s last Broadway revival in 2010, which relied on near-maniacal choreography from its director, Rob Ashford, to see the evening through. This iteration from the director Bronagh Lagan doesn’t possess much compensatory energy, and it’s further hampered by the dreariest set imaginable, from Simon Wells, which makes a Day-Glo decade look unutterably drab. (At various moments, there appear to be bars on the back wall, as if events were taking place in some sort of prison.)Mr. Vick has charmed before, not least as the heartsick Henrik in the last West End revival of “A Little Night Music,” in 2009, but he’s not a natural fit for Mr. Simon’s specific New York rhythms, and too many of the laughs don’t land. Things perk up briefly at the top of the second act when Chuck gets comically entangled with the exuberantly drunk Marge (Alex Young), which in turn leads to the giddy duet “A Fact Can Be a Beautiful Thing” — a title that, come to think of it, does have a particular resonance just now.Otherwise, it’s a long slog to a second duet, “I’ll Never Fall in Love Again,” that at least sends Chuck and Fran out on a high. Still, I doubt I was alone in nodding in assent when Chuck, in one of his many direct addresses to the house, informs us that we “have been very patient.” Yes, we have.A near-death, of course, informs the largely life-enhancing landscape of “Much Ado About Nothing,” the perennial Shakespeare favorite that has arrived at the Theater Royal Haymarket for a repertory season through March 18, playing in rotation with the less well-known “Love’s Labour’s Lost.”Both these productions originated at the Royal Shakespeare Company and were first seen in Stratford-upon-Avon (the RSC’s home base) in 2014. Since then, there has been one major cast change, the addition of the gently alluring Lisa Dillon as Beatrice in “Much Ado” and as Rosaline in “Love’s Labour’s.” The two rank among Shakespeare’s most verbally dexterous heroines, and Ms. Dillon does both roles proud.I saw both stagings on the same day and they are neatly twinned, the director Christopher Luscombe setting the plays on either side of World War I so that it makes particular sense at the beginning of “Much Ado” when that play’s men are said to have just returned home from combat. Of the two productions, though, “Love’s Labour’s” emerges by some measure as the strongest, partly because Mr. Luscombe has neatly filleted a knotty text whose language can sometimes be opaque to modern ears.And in a play about a male community’s vow of celibacy that is put to the test pretty much from the minute it’s announced, it helps that Mr. Luscombe lets the text’s unexpected shifts in tone speak for themselves — the sudden intrusion of death near the end of this play, too, included.Several performers could try a little less hard to curry favor (Nick Haverson for one), and I wish Edward Bennett’s Benedick in “Much Ado” didn’t throw away his defining line, “Serve God, love me, and mend.” On the other hand, when Ms. Dillon’s Beatrice speaks famously of having been born under a dancing star, few in an enraptured audience are likely to disbelieve her.
QUEBEC — In a world often hostile to migration, Canada has stood out, welcoming thousands of refugees fleeing war and seeking a haven. It has been a feel-good time for Canada, proud of its national tolerance.On Sunday, that was upended when a man walked into a mosque and started shooting, killing six people and wounding eight. The man accused of being the gunman, Alexandre Bissonnette, was charged with six counts of murder on Monday.The nation quickly rallied after the attack. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau called it an act of terrorism, and there was a collective outpouring of remorse and empathy. But the attack also forced Canadians to confront a growing intolerance and extremism that has taken root particularly among some people in this French-speaking corner of the country.It was also a wrenching event for a country not accustomed to mass killings and even less used to the acrimonious immigration debate that has echoed from across the United States. Before Sunday, many Canadians were watching the immigration ban there with fascination and, for the most part, disgust.“Muslim Canadians are valued members of every community and wherever they live they deserve to feel safe; they are home here,” Mr. Trudeau said at a memorial near the mosque in the Ste. Foy neighborhood in Monday evening’s biting cold. “We are all Canadians. Let peace unite us all.”Yet while Canadian public figures of all stripes closed ranks quickly to reaffirm their solidarity with Muslims in Canada and tighten their embrace of multiculturalism, the killings remained a tear in the fabric of a nation in transformation.“Canada took in roughly 30,000 Syrian refugees in a three-month period — proportionate to the U.S. taking in 225,000 over that time,” said David B. Harris, a lawyer and a director at Insignis Strategic Research, a counterterrorism consultancy. “These are dramatic developments in the life of any nation.”Mr. Bissonnette, 27, who was also charged with five counts of attempted murder, appeared at the Quebec City courthouse looking boyish in a white jumpsuit. He was not charged with terrorism, which under Canada’s Criminal Code requires a broad proof of intent to intimidate the public.The shooting was the first time anyone had been killed in a mosque in Canada in such circumstances and was, at least in recent times, a rare event outside the Muslim world. The attack was particularly shocking for Quebec City, where the bulk of the population of 750,000 works for the provincial government, universities or in tourism. Until Sunday there had not been any murders in the city for 21 months.Mr. Bissonnette was well known to people who monitor far-right groups in Quebec, where he frequently commented on sites speaking about immigration and Islam. He was a particularly vocal supporter of Marine Le Pen, leader of France’s far right, when she visited the city last year.He was a student of anthropology and political science at Laval University, just minutes from where the shooting took place, according to people who monitored his online activities.“He was not a leader and was not affiliated with the groups we know,” said François Deschamps, a job counselor at Carrefour Jeunesse, a community organization that helps young people find jobs. Mr. Deschamps, who also runs an online group to help refugees called Bienvenue aux Réfugiés, said he had watched Mr. Bissonnette’s anti-Muslim postings for about a year.“The minute I saw his picture this morning, I recognized him,” Mr. Deschamps said by telephone, adding that Mr. Bissonnette used his real name online.Mr. Bissonnette and his family live in Cap-Rouge, a western suburb of Quebec City that lies in the shadow of a towering railroad trestle. Neighbors said there was nothing remarkable about the quiet young man.“We knew the family for 30 years,” said Alain Dufour, a neighbor. He said Mr. Bissonnette and his brother were “normal kids, nothing indicating bizarre behavior.”Even outspoken critics of the religion recoiled at the prospect that an increasingly acrimonious debate over rising Islamic immigration may have contributed to the violence.Kellie Leitch, a conservative member of Parliament who has proposed screening immigrants for “Canadian values,” issued a statement calling the attack “not just on those gathered in a house of worship but on the very fabric of Canadian society.”Quebec has had a history of confrontations with the Muslim community. In 2005, the province became the first to explicitly ban the use of Shariah law and, less than a decade later, the Parti Québécois government tried to pass a “charter of values” that would have banned provincial employees from wearing Muslim head scarves and other “overt” religious symbols.Quebec City, meanwhile, is a conservative bastion within the province and home to right-leaning radio talk shows that push an anti-Islam agenda — unusual for Canadian broadcasters.Lise Lavary, a columnist for the tabloid Journal de Montreal, said it may be time for the debate to calm down.“I am a very vocal opponent of Islamism, and I realize now that whenever I condemn ISIS a lot of people view this as me condemning every Muslim on earth,” she said by telephone on Monday. “Self-censorship looms for the common good.”Mohammed Amin, in charge of social activities at the mosque, said the community had a “cordial relationship” with its neighbors. He dismissed the pig’s head that was left at the mosque’s door last year as “a small incident” that could happen anywhere.But other leaders at the mosque said there have been hate letters, and swastikas painted on its door, episodes that led to the installation of eight security cameras.“We’ve had to be very, very vigilant, careful for our community,” said Boufeldga Benabdallah, a co-founder of the mosque. Of the victims, he said, “The prayed beside us and they were shot in the back because they prayed.”Ste. Foy, the postwar suburb where the attack occurred, is far from the walled city center, which is stuffed with historic buildings and tourists.The victims came from a variety of countries of origin and occupations. Azzeddine Soufiane, 57, was a butcher with a shop down the street from the mosque. Khaled Belkacemi, the oldest victim at 60, was a professor of soil and agri-food engineering at Laval University, according to members of the mosque.Mamadou Tanou Barry, an information technology worker, and Ibrahima Barry, a provincial public servant, were brothers, Radio-Canada reported. Aboubaker Thabti, 44, came to Canada in 2011 from Tunisia and had two children. A programming analyst with the provincial government, Abdelkrim Hassane, 41, was father to three daughters.“Certainly Islamophobia has been increasing for some time,” Samer Majzoub, president of the Canadian Muslim Forum, said by telephone from Montreal.But he said the attack was nonetheless shocking. “It is overwhelming, unthinkable,” he said.
ATLANTA — The Knicks and the Atlanta Hawks played the 11th quadruple-overtime game in N.B.A. history on Sunday, but the ending was all too familiar for the Knicks, a 142-139 loss at Philips Arena.The game lasted 3 hours 39 minutes, and the Knicks made 128 field-goal attempts, 51 of them 3-pointers. Four Knicks players fouled out, including Carmelo Anthony, who scored a season-high 45 points in 46 minutes. The Hawks’ Paul Millsap played 60 minutes. His side took 119 shots. The Knicks’ reserves played minutes that were fit for starters: Justin Holiday, 36; Mindaugas Kuzminskas, 36; Kyle O’Quinn, 25.The Knicks, playing without Anthony after he fouled out with 12.9 seconds left in the second overtime, very nearly forced a fifth overtime. Guard Courtney Lee missed a dead-on 3-point attempt from the right wing with 2.9 seconds to play.“I felt good, I had another five in me,” Knicks guard Brandon Jennings said, adding that he thought it was a great team effort, given how many players fouled out. “This one definitely hurts.”Jennings had 18 points. Holiday had 15 off the bench.Anthony had 28 points in the first half as the Knicks found a groove and led, 65-61, at the break.The Knicks are desperately trying to turn a corner and make the playoffs, but there has been considerable tumult around Anthony amid reports that the team is trying to trade him.Anthony said after the game on Sunday that he just tried to focus on basketball. The trade talk may have made his focus even sharper: This was his fifth game in the last eight with at least 30 points.“I’m feeling good about myself, about my body,” Anthony said, “feeling healthy, being able to focus on basketball, and playing basketball, and not worrying about everything else that’s going on out there.”As for the trade rumors, he said: “Once I’m on the court, I don’t hear that. It’s when you’re off the court you have to start dealing with all that.”Jennings agreed that the only thing that matters is basketball.“I don’t think anything negative is going to stop him from doing what he does,” Jennings said of Anthony. “He just had 45 tonight.”The game never should have gone into the first overtime, much less the fourth, Anthony said. He drove at the rim and made a layup with 2.6 seconds left in regulation to tie the game. Millsap made hard contact with Anthony at the rim.“The game should have been over at that point,” Anthony said, assuming he would go to the line and nail the free throw.Anthony made a baseline jumper at the end of the first overtime to force a second overtime. After he fouled out, Lee engineered the heroics by drilling a 26-footer with 1.5 seconds left to tie it at 123-123 and force a third overtime.The Knicks would not fold even as the starters Kristaps Porzingis and Joakim Noah and the reserve O’Quinn fouled out. The Knicks led by 130-128 in the third overtime, but Dennis Schroder’s driving layup tied the game for Atlanta with three seconds left.The Knicks had a hot start in the fourth overtime, the first for the team since 1951, but then went five straight possessions without a point.“To not be out there that last overtime, a little difficult to watch, especially knowing the flow of the game,” Anthony said.No matter how long the game or how hard the fight, the Knicks seem to draw the same ending: They lose. It was their 15th loss in 20 games. They played without guard Derrick Rose, who injured his ankle on Friday night.Their gallant effort was not necessarily wasted.“Take this game and build off,” Anthony said. “Guys stepped up. You can’t question the effort. We can only keep looking forward. I don’t think we’re that far away. We just have to keep fighting.”Anthony has a no-trade clause, but the Knicks and the team’s president, Phil Jackson, seem determined to move him and get a lottery pick. Asked if a game like this might build a bond with his teammates so strong that he would reject any trade, Anthony just waved it off.“It’s hard for me to think about that at this moment,” he said.
Even before President Trump issued an order on Friday banning immediate entry into the United States by people from several predominantly Muslim countries, immigration lawyers, having heard rumors of coming action from the White House, were on alert.On Wednesday, lawyers from the International Refugee Assistance Project at the Urban Justice Center who were concerned that the action would affect the project’s clients sent out an email calling for lawyers who could volunteer immediately to go to airports where refugees were scheduled to enter the United States.“It occurred to us that there were going to be people who were traveling who would land and have their status affected while in midair,” said Betsy Fisher, the group’s policy director.And that is exactly what happened. Across the country, people were detained on Sunday after being caught up in the aftermath of Mr. Trump’s order, even though a petition filed on Saturday in federal court in Brooklyn led a judge to block part of the order. Hameed Khalid Darweesh and Haider Sameer Abdulkhaleq Alshawi, the plaintiffs named in the petition, were originally clients of Ms. Fisher’s organization.The email received a tremendous response, Ms. Fisher said, with “well over a thousand people” expressing interest and availability.By Saturday morning, the lawyers who heeded the call were at about a dozen airports around the country.Others who heard about the effort through colleagues or the news media went to airports on their own to pitch in. By early Sunday morning, Ms. Fisher said, lawyers offering services and advice were at “most international airports in the United States.”Andre Segura, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union, arrived at Kennedy International Airport in New York at 1:30 p.m. on Saturday. He said that the outside section of Central Diner, a restaurant in Terminal 4, was “entirely taken over by attorneys,” all working to file petitions for individual clients with the help of the clients’ families.“There were attorneys from numerous major law firms, nonprofits, all working together,” Mr. Segura said. “I’ve never seen that immediate coming together of teams to start filing actions to try to protect people.”He added, “The dynamic between what was happening inside the terminal with all the attorneys, and outside with massive protests and people holding signs — I’ve never experienced anything like that.”Mr. Segura said he arrived home around 2 a.m. on Sunday. He woke up at 5:30 and began answering emails from lawyers who had stayed overnight at the airport.While lawyers gathered at airports on Saturday, others were working furiously on litigation. Cecillia Wang, the A.C.L.U.’s deputy legal director, described the scene at her office as “complete chaos.”“I was sitting at my desk working on a template habeas petition that could be used by lawyers at airports all around the country,” she said.Omar Jadwat, the director of the A.C.L.U.’s Immigrant Rights Project, which worked on the petition that led to the judge’s stay, said the litigation had not been prepared ahead of time.“That was not something we had on the shelf ready to go, waiting for the right plaintiffs to come along,” he said. “It was a case of: There’s this emergency, and people have to work together to figure out a response as quickly as we can so that these people and other people around the country didn’t get deported.”Even after word of the federal court’s order reached the airport in New York, confusion reigned.Alina Das, a professor of clinical law at New York University School of Law, said she had arrived at the airport at 7 p.m. on Saturday and stayed overnight, working to get a client released. Ms. Das, who said she could not comment on her client’s situation, described the scene on Sunday morning, saying that it was “incredibly difficult to get an answer on whether our clients were going to be sent back or whether they were being processed for release” and that people remained detained even after the court order blocked part of the president’s actions.Avi Gesser, a partner at the law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell, described the process in Terminal 4 on Saturday, saying that a group of people had been deployed to search for those whose family members were detained.“If they found people, they referred them over to us and we onboarded people as clients if we could, and then filed habeas petitions,” he said.Mr. Gesser, who is originally from Canada, did not leave the airport until 4:30 a.m. on Sunday, he said.“Our firm has a lot of people who were not born in the United States,” he said. “We felt that people who were being detained needed legal representation. And that’s something that we do very well.”Rebecca Heller, who was coordinating lawyers’ efforts on the ground for the International Refugee Assistance Project on Saturday, said that by Sunday afternoon, her services were far less in demand.“They’re self-organizing now!” she said excitedly in a brief phone call. “That’s how a movement starts.”
The cashier at the grocery store was friendly, and when she saw that I was buying three bottles of Pedialyte, she made a sympathetic moue. “Got a sick one at home?” she asked. “Yes,” I said mechanically, trying to arrange my face into the expression of a person caring for a suffering toddler or maybe a food-poisoned wife. In fact, I was buying liter-size bottles of children’s electrolyte solution in preparation for my 39th birthday — or, more precisely, for its aftermath.Pedialyte, manufactured by Abbott Nutrition, is essentially a medical-grade sports drink, designed to treat dehydration by replacing the water and minerals lost in the course of childhood ailments like diarrhea or uncontrollable vomiting. As anyone who has consumed gin will tell you, these ailments are not limited to childhood.I find that the individual’s relationship to such symptoms is more of a horseshoe. During childhood, when life’s pleasures include petting zoos, eating as rapidly as hand volume will allow and riding things that move in tight circles, vomiting happens a lot. It tapers off toward adolescence, but as our interests shift to social relationships and the robust exchange of ideas — i.e., binge drinking — vomiting comes roaring back. By the time adolescence draws to a close in our late 30s, it can become a problem once more.As a child, I vomited prolifically — in cars, at church, one time doing a somersault in gym. By adolescence, though, I had it under control. I hardly ever vomited in college, where I learned a system of pacing and selection that allowed me to put down a two-digit number of drinks without anything bad happening. I adhered to this system diligently. But around my 30th birthday — the very next morning, in fact — it began to fail. Year by year, my vomit threshold fell, until it undercut my drunk threshold. It was as if the very principles of biology had come undone.At some point, we discover that innocent behaviors, like drinking 10 beers and yelling about the Hold Steady until the lights come on, now result in terrible consequences. Through no fault of our own, we find ourselves at the mercy of our revolting bodies, reduced to the conditions of childhood again. Pedialyte offers redress for this injustice, helping us recapture the forgiveness that comes with youth.But Pedialyte is not just for adults who drink. It is also for athletes, or anyone who finds their sodium and potassium — their very vital essences — washed away on a tide of sweat, or just age. I last consumed Pedialyte yesterday, to recover not from compulsive drinking but from compulsive exercise. During a 90-minute hot yoga class, I typically drop about six pounds of water weight. In addition to disgusting everyone nearby, this loss of electrolytes leaves me bleary and sluggish for hours. Pedialyte restores normal functioning faster than water, which makes it the preferred rehydration tool not just of workout masochists but also of competitive fighters who must recover quickly after drying themselves out to make weight.In this area, as in hangover control, Pedialyte outperforms conventional sports drinks. It contains more than twice as much sodium per liter as Gatorade and more than six times as much potassium. And it does not contain sugar, which can draw water into the large intestine and worsen dehydration. Instead, it uses artificial sweeteners, which combine with the other ingredients to replicate the flavor of a Popsicle that has melted and run off a horse. It is somehow both too salty and too sweet.You can get around this problem by buying the unflavored variety and soaking oranges in it overnight. I learned this method from my brother, who once became so dehydrated from a combination of exercise, altitude and air travel that he had to drink Pedialyte every day for a month while wearing a brain monitor. Preparing your cures before you need them is the kind of discipline you learn as you get older. Why you should learn this kind of discipline but not the other kind — the one that stops you from drinking to excess — is a difficult question. Perhaps we have little use for the knowledge that we are too old to get away with what we did when we were young. The whole point of growing older is to become wily, so we can get away with more.Pedialyte is one such wile. Like any hangover treatment, it is a bid to escape the consequences of doing what you know you shouldn’t. It allows us to return to behaviors that once expressed our vitality but now move us closer to death. At 23, I could drink a dozen whiskeys and be fine the next day, as long as I had eggs. Getting drunk made me feel more alive. At a certain point along the horseshoe, though, such living starts to kill you. The same principle applies to exercise, albeit later. There comes a time in life when exhaustive workouts stop being good for you and start moving you closer to death. Pedialyte moves that line, or rather moves you in relation to it.The paradox of this children’s rehydration beverage is that you need it more as you get older. According to the Nielsen market-research firm, adult consumption of Pedialyte increased 57 percent between 2012 and mid-2015. It is unclear how many of these adults were using it to recover from weight cuts and hot yoga, but it’s safe to assume hangovers were among the most popular causes. My generation, which put off having children and turned adolescence into an ethos, is doing so by drinking an elixir for babies.
To the Sports Editor:Re “FIFA to Expand World Cup to 48 Teams in 2026,” Jan. 10: I think that Gianni Infantino’s idea is a good one because, as the article said, it will give more countries a chance to play and it is a way to make FIFA more popular. Even though this will increase the players’ workload, it will also be a great chance for them to get to know more of their fellow athletes and to see teams that are not very well known.I hope fans will come to accept this change, because people like myself watch FIFA from all over the world and cheer on their team even when they are far from home. As Infantino said: “Football is more than just Europe and South America. Football is global.”Trinidad PavezGuatemala CityTo the Sports Editor:The FIFA president, Gianni Infantino, is on a mission to destroy soccer. His wish was realized when the FIFA council voted unanimously to expand the World Cup teams from 32 to 48 teams. There is no doubt that this decision will compromise the quality of games; undeserving teams will now find themselves participating in future World Cups.There has been an outcry that Africa is underrepresented at the World Cup. Africa is the biggest region of FIFA, with 54 member countries, but it is allowed to bring only five teams to the World Cup. Europe, with 50 countries, is allowed to bring 13 teams.FIFA should have solved the problem by cutting the number of European teams and increasing the number of African teams. That way, the quality of soccer would have remained intact. In recent years, we have seen many European teams qualifying for the World Cup but adding no value to the games because it is easier for them to qualify.Romanius ZuluDurban, South Africa
WASHINGTON — The calls and emails went out a little past 10 p.m. Friday, rippling through an informal network of current and former Yale Law School students who had worked at the school’s immigrant rights advocacy clinic. The news told of an Iraqi man being detained at Kennedy International Airport because of President Trump’s travel ban, putting him at imminent risk of deportation.Around three dozen lawyers and law students across the country divided up research and writing, and worked through the night. Together, they slammed together a legal complaint asking a federal judge to free the man — and, soon, another like him — and to certify their lawsuit as a class action on behalf of others in a similar situation.Around 5:30 a.m. — shortly before the first Europe-bound flights were scheduled to depart — they filed the lawsuit on the electronic docket system for the Eastern District of New York. Then they began converting their files into templates for lawyers in districts across the country to use, as well.So began the opening salvos of the legal pushback to Mr. Trump’s executive order banning entry to refugees and others from seven predominantly Muslim countries.“It was amazing — everyone swung into action and we were up all night drafting it,” said Becca Heller, a Yale graduate and co-founder of the International Refugee Assistance Project, which represented the Iraqi men. Anticipating that Mr. Trump’s order might ensnare them, the project had sent lawyers to the airport to meet them when their flight landed.The effort was primarily drafted by lawyers at the project and at the National Immigration Law Center, and by law students at Yale’s Worker and Immigrant Rights Advocacy Clinic overseen by Profs. Michael J. Wishnie and Muneer I. Ahmad. Then it was argued at an emergency hearing by an American Civil Liberties Union lawyer.The effort illustrates that a broad mobilization of rights-oriented lawyers is emerging.Determined to make legal resistance one of the defining attributes of the Trump era, lawyers at liberal advocacy groups have been putting aside institutional rivalries and organizing to work together on litigation.Several leaders of the effort said their hope is that the judiciary may serve as a strong check to a government controlled by Mr. Trump and his fellow Republicans in Congress across a broad range of anticipated fights.For example, in early January, the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law convened a private meeting of about two dozen civil rights groups to strategize about coming voting rights and other civil rights fights, participants said. And last week, the American Constitution Society and the NAACP Legal Defense Fund co-sponsored a similar two-day private conference to discuss coordination of legal challenges.“We are clearly in a moment in which civil rights organizations face unprecedented challenges and will need to mount new and more aggressive strategies,” said Kristen Clarke, the president and executive director of the Lawyers’ Committee.Now, with the lawsuit filed in Brooklyn — which was quickly echoed elsewhere, including one filed in Virginia by two other veterans of the Yale immigration clinic — the leading edge of that wave is arriving. (The litigation joins a lawsuit filed last week arguing that Mr. Trump’s ownership of businesses that take payments from foreign governments violates the Constitution.)Propelling the effort is an outpouring of financial support and volunteers that legal rights group leaders say dwarfs the campaign that gradually emerged to counter the George W. Bush administration’s post-Sept. 11 national security policies, including detention without trial at the prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba.“You’ve never seen it at this intensity and across all these different issues — freedom of speech, Muslim rights, immigrants’ rights, abortion rights,” said Anthony D. Romero, the executive director of the A.C.L.U. “All the pots have been put on a boil.”The A.C.L.U.’s membership rolls and fund-raising provide a measure of those energies. Mr. Romero said his group last year had about 400,000 members — to be active, people must give at least $20 each year — down from its peak of about 550,000 during the Bush administration. In each of the past three years, its website took in about $5 million in donations, he said.But just since Election Day, he said, the A.C.L.U. has surged to more than a million members and — as of 5 p.m. Monday — it had taken in $71.3 million from 921,304 online donations; $31.5 million of that came from 456,714 since Friday, when Mr. Trump signed the travel ban. The money will fund many more lawyers at both the federal and state level, he said.“It’s extraordinary — we’ve never seen anything like this,” Mr. Romero said. “It means that people expect us to do a lot more of this work.”Other organizations also reported a surge in fund-raising and interest. Caroline Fredrickson, the executive director of the American Constitution Society, said that when her organization sponsors a conference call to discuss an issue, it typically gets 80 to 100 R.S.V.P.s. On Monday, it announced a call about the travel ban and got 500, she said.Similarly, Nan Aron, the president of the liberal Alliance for Justice, which focuses on judicial nominations, said in the past her group has had trouble getting support from corporate law firms that seek to avoid entanglement in politics, but since the election, several “major” ones — she would not name them — have volunteered their services to research the backgrounds and records of potential judicial nominees.“The bar has been galvanized in a way I have not seen since the 1960s,” she said. “They are just showering us with offers of legal assistance.”New liberal legal groups are also sprouting up. The day after the election, Traci Feit Love, an Atlanta-based lawyer, created a private Facebook group she called Lawyers for Good Government, hoping, she said, to get about 200 members who wanted to discuss the changes that were coming.Within three days, she said, it had 60,000 members. It now has 127,000, of whom 20,000 have registered for an email list. Her group has since helped organize the “Rise Above” conference in Washington, as part of the post-inauguration Women’s March and helped steer volunteer lawyers to airports after Mr. Trump’s order.“We’re not looking to supplant other organizations — we’re looking to complement them,” Ms. Love said.Many immigrant legal advocacy groups were also steering volunteer lawyers to airports, and over the weekend at Dulles International Airport outside Washington, the number of volunteer lawyers at times exceeded the number of protesters. By Sunday, the volunteers had set up a makeshift legal clinic on a folding table under a bank of escalators and began to organize themselves, starting a WhatsApp group to share information and a Google spreadsheet to track potential cases.Amber D. Murray, 34, an immigration attorney who works with No One Left Behind, which helps resettle Iraqi and Afghan refugees who worked for the military, was at Dulles around 6:30 p.m. Sunday when she got a call from an Afghan man whose flight had just landed.The man had a special visa that is given to those who have worked for the United States military or government, and was arriving with his wife and children.“If you get pulled aside, give them my name, give them my phone number and tell them I’m your lawyer,” Ms. Murray told him.Then the waiting began. After hours to clear customs, her clients made it out.
Hospitals try to control Clostridium difficile, a bacterium that can cause deadly infections, by careful cleaning and meticulous washing of the hands. But limiting the use of antibiotics may be even more effective, a British study suggests.The incidence of C. difficile infection in England declined by 80 percent after 2006, when strict hospital sanitation and antibiotic prescription controls were both implemented.The study, in The Lancet, found that in regions where fluoroquinolone antibiotics were used widely, the more virulent and deadly resistant strains of C. diff became the dominant type of infection, while susceptible strains continued to enter the hospital from the community.In areas where antibiotic use was restricted, infections with resistant strains largely disappeared, leaving only people infected with milder, and more easily treatable, nonresistant strains.Both careful cleaning and antibiotic control are important, according to the senior author of the study, Dr. Mark Wilcox, a professor of microbiology at the University of Leeds. But, he said, “In a setting where the resistant strain is present, careful use of antibiotics is most effective.”
Think you know Tchaikovsky’s Piano Concerto No. 1? Think again.It’s one of the most popular pieces in the repertoire. But the pianist Kirill Gerstein, as inquisitive as he is talented, argues that what we commonly hear is an overly ostentatious misrepresentation, tarted up after Tchaikovsky’s death.From Thursday through Feb. 7 with the New York Philharmonic, Mr. Gerstein plays a new critical edition, more delicate and less grandiose. Based on an 1879 version, it has among its sources Tchaikovsky’s own conducting score, which he used in a St. Petersburg concert nine days before his death in 1893. It is therefore closer to the music performed at Carnegie Hall’s opening week in 1891 than anything heard by New Yorkers since. Here are edited excerpts from a conversation with Mr. Gerstein.Most music lovers would be surprised to hear that such a well-known work isn’t quite what we think it is.I liken it to those iconic paintings that go to a museum restoration shop. It’s like in a portrait: a wrinkle here, no wrinkle there, an eyebrow tilted in a slightly different way. For anyone who has anxiety, it’s still very much the Tchaikovsky concerto we love, but it perhaps has a different facial expression than we are used to.How did the usual edition come about?There’s a tragedy, especially in Russian culture, of geniuses surrounded by less talented well-wishers. Tchaikovsky was one of those, where certain people in his circle — in this case Alexander Siloti, his student and an uncle of Rachmaninoff — thought they knew better. Siloti had been in Europe and studied with Liszt. His tendency toward the superficially brilliant, and some of the traits of 19th-century pianism that are less noble than the tradition generally is in its best manifestations, resulted in these posthumous editorial changes.Some people like to eat organic food — that’s Tchaikovsky’s version — and some people like to eat everything with sprinkles of MSG. That’s fine, as long as you know that what you’re sprinkling is monosodium glutamate. So if one wants to play Tchaikovsky-Siloti, do that. I think it’s better to do what the composer himself wrote.Do these changes fundamentally alter the character of the piece, or are they just refinements?A bit of both. When you take it all together, there are maybe four, five significant changes and about 150, 160 minor discrepancies of articulation and dynamic indications in various orchestra parts, as well as in the piano part.What it suggests is a fresh look at how the piece is interpreted. Some skeptic might say that the percentage of the notes that are different is probably less than 1 percent, so what’s the big deal? It gives us a chance to revisit something for sincere musical interest, something that is so often relegated to being an old war horse, and frankly not taken seriously enough because the criticism is that it’s so bombastic. It may be better than we are used to. I do find that in all the cases where there is a discrepancy, what the composer wrote is more suitable and fitting to the musical content, to the general poetry of the piece.Perhaps the most shocking thing is that the famous opening chords are now rolled.Absolutely. When you enter this great building, if we compare it to a building, not through this pompous entrance but with something clearly more lyrical and less blaring, it obviously casts a different shadow on what follows.What’s interesting is that so many other things come into focus. Finally the dynamics that Tchaikovsky indicates in the orchestral melody make sense. Usually the pianist enters with these chords as powerfully as he can, to show that he’s got the goods, and the orchestra immediately responds. It’s like a Cold War escalates in the first measures. Now, since the chords are rolled and arpeggiated, one can arpeggiate quicker or slower, and help the flow of the melody in a much more flexible style than what one hears when these chords are symmetrically crashing.In the usual version, I was always surprised when these big crashing chords suddenly do switch into arpeggios a few measures later. Was he not a good enough composer that he couldn’t figure out how to continue with these block chords, if that’s what he wanted? Years later, I find out that that’s where the editor made the cut back to Tchaikovsky’s own version.Is there another major change you would pick out?The one that’s obvious is that in the third movement there is this middle section. We have about 45 seconds of usually unheard music — incidentally, very adventurous harmonically and contrapuntally.My feeling has always been that it seems like an odd decision, that Tchaikovsky goes into this different mood, and stays in it for 20 seconds, and then he’s back to the previous mood. But it turns out this is a section that’s longer, and so we’re in this mood longer. The third movement really then acquires a more balanced structure.
• Six people were killed and eight were wounded, some seriously, during an attack on a mosque in the Canadian city of Quebec during evening prayers on Sunday, according to the police. The six dead were ages 35 to 70.• Thirty-nine worshipers at the mosque, the Islamic Cultural Center of Quebec, at the time of the attack were unharmed, the police said.• A spokeswoman for the Quebec Provincial Police, Christine Colombe, said that one of the two suspects was arrested at the scene of the shooting and another was apprehended nearby in d’Orleans. The police have not yet identified a motive for the attack.Prime Minister Justin Trudeau issued a statement on behalf of himself and his wife in reaction to the shooting:The leaders of the province and city of Quebec held a news conference on Monday morning to express their solidarity with Muslims.“We are with you. You are at home,” said Philippe Couillard, the premier of Quebec, addressing Muslims. “I have no doubt that one particular community, the Muslim community, was the target of this deadly attack.”The officials plan to meet with Muslim leaders at 10 a.m.In a post on Twitter, Mr. Couillard called for solidarity with Muslims. “Let’s unite against violence. Solidarity with the Quebecois of Muslim faith.”Martin Coiteux, the provincial minister of public safety, said that “the police systems for dealing with terrorist acts have been activated.”“Ensuring the safety of the population is our priority,” he wrote on Twitter.Mr. Trudeau quickly addressed the shooting on Twitter:Régis Labeaume, the mayor of Quebec, said in a statement that the city was in a state of shock.“Quebec City is an open city where all must be able to live in safety and respect,” he said.Of the city’s nearly 765,000 people, 6,760 identified themselves as Muslims during the last national census. While a small percentage of the majority-Roman Catholic city, Muslims significantly outnumber followers from Canada’s two main Protestant churches, which have just 1,120 adherents there.Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York said the police were providing additional protection for mosques there after the Quebec shooting, according to The Associated Press. “All New Yorkers should be vigilant. If you see something, say something,” he posted on Twitter.The police in Montreal and other Canadian cities would also be increasing security around mosques, according to the CBC.Mohamed Yangui, the president of the mosque, was not present at the time of the attack, but he told the Toronto daily The Globe and Mail that evening prayers were usually attended by 60 to 100 people. He relayed the accounts of witnesses who told him that the assailants had reloaded their guns as they worked their way through two floors.
Lois Dickson Rice, a janitor’s daughter who became a trailblazing corporate executive and helped persuade Congress to provide federal subsidies, known as Pell grants, to tens of millions of needy college students, died on Jan. 4 in Washington. She was 83.The cause was pneumonia and cancer, her daughter, Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser to President Obama, said.In the business world, Lois Rice was a director on several major company boards, including those of Firestone, McGraw-Hill and the Control Data Corporation, the supercomputer manufacturer. She was also a senior vice president of Control Data.She joined the College Entrance Examination Board (now known as the College Board) in 1959. As an executive there, she promoted and helped shape the Basic Educational Opportunity Grant Program, whose chief sponsor was Senator Claiborne Pell, Democrat of Rhode Island.The program, begun in 1972, awards grants rather than loans, mostly to undergraduates, on the basis of financial need. (A grant is designed to fill the gap between the cost of college and the family’s estimated contribution. This academic year, the maximum grant is $5,815.)Ms. Rice continued to promote the program as director of the board’s Washington office and as its national vice president from 1973 to 1981.Mr. Pell died in 2009. His grandson Clay Pell IV, a former deputy assistant secretary of the Education Department, said in a statement after Ms. Rice’s death, “This program was not inevitable, and it would not have come into existence without her, nor survived in the decades since without her passionate advocacy.”Lois Anne Dickson was born on Feb. 28, 1933, in Portland, Me., the daughter of David Augustus Dickson and the former Mary Daly. Her father was a janitor at a music store; her mother was a maid. Both were Jamaican immigrants who sent all five of their children to college.She graduated in 1954 from Radcliffe College, where she majored in history and literature and was president of the student body.Her marriage to Emmett J. Rice, an economist and a governor of the Federal Reserve, ended in divorce. In addition to her daughter, from that marriage, she is survived by a son, E. John Rice Jr., the chief executive of Management Leadership for Tomorrow; four stepchildren; and four grandchildren. Dr. Rice died in 2011.Ms. Rice later married Alfred B. Fitt, general counsel of the Congressional Budget Office and of the Army. He died in 1992.Since 1991, Ms. Rice had been a guest scholar at the Brookings Institution in Washington, researching higher-education policy and promoting racial diversity. Last June, she and Susan Rice, a former Brookings senior fellow, were honored as the only mother-daughter research duo in the think tank’s history.“Lois was a giant in the field of education,” Arne Duncan, the former secretary of education, said in a statement. “For so many of us, she was a hero, a role model and an example of what true service is all about. She helped create a pathway to college for literally millions of low-income and first-generation college goers, changing the trajectories of their families forever.”
The talk in London and Washington is of securing borders, protecting homegrown industries, rejecting the grand designs of international agreements.The shifting political mood wouldn’t seem to be great news for the art market, whose growth in recent years, particularly at the top end of the price range, has been fueled in part by profits reaped from globalization.Recent events in Brussels and London have highlighted the changing dynamics of the international art trade. On Jan. 20, an “exclusive viewing” of the 62nd edition of Brafa, the first major art and antiques fair of the year in Europe, was held in the Belgian capital.The January 2016 edition of the Brafa fair was subdued, coming so soon after the November 2015 terrorist attacks in Paris. And two months after the fair, Brussels itself was struck by Islamic State militants.Floral tributes to the 35 victims of the attacks at Brussels Airport and at a metro station have long been cleared from Place de la Bourse, but terrorism remains an abiding concern, dissuading some who are long-haul flights away from visiting mainland Europe.“No Americans came,” sighed Jean-Pierre Montesino, director of the Paris antiquities dealership Galerie Cybèle, one of 132 exhibitors in Brafa’s stylish conversion of the former customs warehouse Tour & Taxis. “We live with terrorism. It’s our destiny, but life goes on.”Mr. Montesino nonetheless sold a fine Egyptian model funerary boat dating from the second millennium B.C. for 150,000 euros, or about $160,000, to a Belgian collector during the V.I.P. previews.“It’s more of a regional fair,” said Christian Ogier, a Paris-based dealer in modern art, who was visiting Brafa. He added that he had noticed plenty of French, Italian and Dutch collectors there. “There was a variety of things of good quality with prices that weren’t crazy. It has a niche for itself, which is secure — for the moment.”Brafa, which attracted more than 58,000 visitors last year, features an approachable mix of modern, tribal, medieval and ancient art with European antiques. Though Belgium is renowned for its contemporary art collectors, 21st-century art, as at the Tefaf fair in Maastricht, the Netherlands, is thinly represented. The Brussels-based newcomer Rodolphe Janssen was one of few dealers showing international contemporary art, having decided to cut down on exhibiting at three American fairs.The return to his local client base paid off. Mr. Janssen sold more than 20 works in the first three days, including the quirky 2016 oil-on-linen “Captain Homer” — showing a peak-capped mariner with seven pipes protruding from his beard — by the New York artist Sean Landers, priced at €150,000, to another Belgian collector.“Art is a transcontinental commodity,” said William Weston, a specialist dealer in modern prints, who was at Phillips on the evening of Jan. 19 for the auction house’s eighth “Editions” sale of prints in London. “Nationalism won’t harm its trading position. It won’t affect the market in New York or London. Americans won’t stop buying David Hockney because he’s a British artist.”So it proved at Phillips, where the unique David Hockney print “Steps with Shadow F (Paper Pool 2)”, made in 1978 using the unconventional medium of dye-saturated paper pulp, sold by telephone to an American collector for a top price of 629,000 pounds, or about $774,000, just above the high estimate.Phillips’s total of £3.7 million was its highest yet for an “Editions” sale in London. A remarkable 94 percent of the 218 lots, offered in day and evening sessions, found buyers, with 35 percent of the works selling online. Bidders hailed from 38 countries.“The price points are attractive, and the names are desirable,” said Robert Kennan, the head of the Phillips sale. “We’ve attracted a lot of international clients. With prints, you can buy with confidence remotely.”But buying prints on the internet is one thing, and getting on an airplane to buy unique art in person is another, perhaps even more so in 2017’s politically and economically volatile world.At the moment, at least, the wealthy still have plenty of money to reap — the Dow Jones industrial average reached a milestone on Wednesday, closing above 20,000. And London, with a declining currency after the British vote to leave the European Union, continues to attract international visitors.On Jan. 17, the London Art Fair held a preview in the well-heeled district of Islington. The fair, specializing in postwar and contemporary British art, used to have a reputation for drawing bankers spending their bonuses. But after the 2008 financial crisis, a number of top-tier dealers stopped exhibiting there, leaving the fair to evolve into a more midmarket event geared to a domestic audience. Prosecco flowed freely in plastic glasses at the private view.Now the market for so-called Mod Brit art is booming again, certainly at auction.The £24.3 million David Bowie sale at Sotheby’s in November introduced international clients to Mod Brit staples such as the abstract painter Peter Lanyon, who reached a new auction high of £797,000.Some of these new international buyers, who were so thin on the ground at Brafa, are now beginning to trickle into London’s Mod Brit galleries and fairs.“When the market gets a broader international interest, it gears up,” said Robert Travers, director of Piano Nobile, a London gallery that was among the 129 exhibitors at Art London. He added that he had been surprised to sell figurative paintings by the thoroughly British artists William Coldstream and Euan Uglow at the fair, to a collector from Beijing, for a combined £150,000.More problematically, the market for works by young international artists aren’t as much in demand as they were three or four years ago. With collectors wary of overpaying for unknown quantities, dealers are struggling to make the low price points for emerging art pay for booth rentals at major art fairs.Hence the emergence of cheaper alternatives. Condo, which runs through Feb. 11, is a nonprofit collaboration that allows visiting dealers to share spaces with cutting-edge galleries in London for a £650 fee. Now in its second year, the promotion, which expanded to 36 participants this year, lets dealers present more-challenging work than would normally be seen at a commercial art fair. Productive contacts with collectors and curators, rather than profitable sales, are the main objective.The New York gallerist Bridget Donahue debuted at Sadie Coles HQ in Soho with the video and photography installation “The Easy Demands,” by Martine Syms, a Los Angeles-born artist who makes politically engaged art exploring themes of race in American culture.Ms. Donahue described the crowd of more than 500 people at the Jan. 13 preview as “local,” but other Condo exhibitors noticed collectors from farther afield, such as — you guessed it — Belgium. Some limited-edition photographic prints from Ms. Syms’s installation found buyers for under $10,000 each.“Nobody makes any money,” Ms. Donahue said. “It’s about good will and finding other ways. It’s quite beautiful, I think.”Whether it be a print auction in London in January or the Art Basel fair in Switzerland in June, the established names of 20th- and 21st-century art are expected to continue to sell to international buyers in 2017. But those offering less obviously bankable works may find the febrile geopolitical mood more challenging. Increasingly, in today’s art market, they are going to have to find “other ways.”
Recent years have not been kind to the historic pantheon of fortified wines.Port, sherry and Madeira once played fundamental roles in the drinking regimen of wine lovers. Now? They have had to reinvent themselves for a world that offers far more choices in wine and no longer seems to value the high alcohol or sweetness in fortified wines or the occasion of the after-dinner drink.Partly, this means promoting fortified wines as cocktail ingredients, which keeps the flow of wine going but seems a little sad, as it fails to recognize the intrinsic grandeur of these wines.Port may have the biggest challenge in winning a new audience, as it is intensely sweet, high in alcohol and perhaps best suited for the postprandial smoke fests of a departed era.Sherry, because it is primarily dry and wonderfully flexible with savory food, has a path forward, particularly because the sherry business has begun to shift from mass production of mediocre wines to the smaller production of exceptional wines.Madeira is somewhere in the middle. Like sherry, it can be deliciously refreshing. It has somewhat dry versions, too, though you have to seek them out. Like port and some types of sherry (oloroso in particular), it is quite high in alcohol, often 19 percent or more.How might Madeira fit into a modern wine drinker’s portfolio of choices? Wine School thrives on that sort of exploration.Most of you know how Wine School works. I pick a genre of wine and recommend three bottles for drinking over the course of a month, in a natural setting with food, family and friends. I invite you to share your thoughts in the comments section below.In a departure from our usual method, I suggested for this month three wildly different wines, featuring different grapes, though they were all Madeiras. The bottles all came from the Historic Series, a special set of Madeiras from the Rare Wine Company of Brisbane, Calif., an importer and merchant that has been unrivaled in its efforts to revive Madeira in the United States.Rare Wine, working in collaboration with Vinhos Barbeito, a leading Madeira producer, has tried to create the styles of Madeira regionally common in the 18th and early 19th centuries, when the wine was prized throughout the United States.The three bottles I chose were the Charleston Sercial Special Reserve, the driest, made with the sercial grape; the New York Malmsey Special Reserve, an intensely sweet wine made with the malmsey or malvasia grape; and the Boston Bual Special Reserve, made with the bual grape, which is sweeter than the sercial but not as sweet as the malmsey.What unites them all as Madeira? First, they all come from the Portuguese island of Madeira. Second, they are all made in the same unorthodox manner, which turns ordinary thinking about wine on its head.Heat, oxygen and vibration are all considered to be the enemies of wine, but Madeira is purposely heated during its production and its aging. It is also subjected to the slow, controlled oxidation of prolonged barrel aging. In colonial days, when the rigors of long ocean voyages posed challenges to shipping most wines, Madeira seemed to thrive with rolling and pitching on the open sea.When the wine is ready to be consumed, it has another surprise waiting: Open the bottle, drink some of it and forget about the rest for days, weeks, even years. Most wines would go bad, but Madeira is virtually indestructible.One reader, A J of Boston, suggested that even so, Madeira is best consumed within a week. I have to disagree. I haven’t noticed a decline in quality over even far longer periods.In every way, Madeira is a departure from previous explorations in Wine School. Yet an intrepid group of readers largely embraced it and was delighted.“Words cannot describe how amazing these wines are,” said Ron L. of Gainesville, Fla., who was inspired to acquire not only these three Madeiras but two more as well.VSB, who drank the sercial with both shrimp sautéed in garlic, saffron and Madeira and roasted prime rib and potatoes, called the meal wonderful.“Perhaps the Wine School’s best lesson,” he said.Dan Barron of New York enjoyed the sercial with skirt steak with anchovies and lime. “The sweet and salty flavors were so lovely together,” he said, although he added that it was not as harmonious with pork tenderloin.What about the sweeter Madeiras? Another reader, Ferguson, did not expect much from the bual, she said, but found it went beautifully with a Melissa Clark recipe for creamy Swedish meatballs. And Martin Schappeit of Forest, Va., confirmed my belief that the malmsey is a brilliant match for chocolate. Valentine’s revelers, please take note: Your annual question has just been answered.I tried the wines with a variety of foods. While I reserved the malmsey for chocolate, I drank the bual and the sercial with a spicy chicken biryani. Spicy foods generally go wonderfully with sweet still wines, but the Madeiras were too high in alcohol to work well. The spiciness of the dish amplified the heat of the alcohol.The wines were far more in tune with a meal of weisswurst and baked beans, made with Rancho Gordo yellow eye beans. A hint of molasses sweetness in the beans dovetailed beautifully with the wines. I had a slight preference for the sercial over the bual, but, then, I generally do.I’m being a bit clinical here, so let me interrupt to say, simply, that I love everything about good Madeira. I love the color, somewhere between honey and amber, brightening to a sort of reddish orange at the edges. I love the tension between sweetness and acidity that makes Madeira so refreshing, and I love the flavors, which resound in the mouth in a way that often causes me to imagine I am seeing colors.Almost by chance, I also had the opportunity to try a series of Madeiras at the Beatrice Inn in Greenwich Village, which is putting together a collection of Madeiras to pair with its chef Angie Mar’s Dickensian cooking. The restaurant’s emphasis on roasted meats and savory meat pies and tarts is reminiscent of an era when Madeira was the wine of choice.Having left the wine pairings to the restaurant, I was brought a sercial with a savory cherry tart — delicious! A bual matched the intensity and richness of a chicken liver mousse, while with the côte de boeuf I was served a glass of a rare vintage Madeira, a 1998 made of the terrantez grape, which was once prolific on the island but, because of its fragility, had largely been forgotten until recent inklings of a comeback.This was a brilliant combination. The live-wire acidity of the Madeira cut through the fat and richness of the beef, while its slight sweetness melded perfectly.Although I will always champion the deliciousness and utility of Madeira, I realize it’s not to everybody’s taste. George Erdle of Charlotte, N.C., tried each of the wines with his tasting group, and found that while they didn’t dislike the Madeiras, they weren’t particularly drawn to them.“All in all, we thought Madeira might not be high on our list of favorite wines, but once again a welcome, eye-opening experience,” he said.That’s exactly the spirit we promote. If the willingness to explore doesn’t always lead to utter satisfaction, it at least builds context and confidence in one’s taste. Try it again a year from now, Mr. Erdle, and see if you still feel the same way.The final word comes from Alesia Snyder of Pottstown, Pa., whose tasting group also tried all three wines. By the time they got to dessert, the noble exploration had evolved into a rollicking good time.“We were drinking whatever, and the tasting had disintegrated into simple enjoyment of the wines, foods and friends,” she said.May I say, what could be better?Madeira may not be a nightly drink for most people, but it clearly has a novel role to play.
Magdelaine Harris Anthony and James Knott Cushing were married Jan. 28. The Rev. William Peyton led the ceremony at St. James’ Episcopal Church in New York.The bride, who is known as Mimi, 26, is the varsity field hockey, squash and lacrosse coach at the Spence School in New York. She graduated from Ohio Wesleyan University.She is a daughter of Ann W. Anthony and Robert W. Anthony of New York.The groom, 32, is a vice president and portfolio manager at Morse Asset Management, an investment firm in New York. He graduated from Trinity College in Hartford.He a son of Nora K. Cushing and Howard G. Cushing Jr. of Newport, R.I.The couple met in June 2012 at a restaurant in New York.
What fly is famous on TV?Think corpses and detectives wanting to know how long that body has been in a storage locker or suitcase. It’s the blowfly, of course. Its larvae, a.k.a. maggots, feed on rotting flesh, which could be that spouse or business partner who got in the way. Or, in a good police procedural, both the spouse and the business partner, sent to the great beyond together for their transgressions.By seeing whether the eggs have hatched and how big the larvae are, forensic scientists can get an idea of how much time has passed since the victims met their end and began the final chapter in the way of all flesh.By the way, if you have a problem with a spouse or business partner, it’s worth keeping in mind that the flies can indeed get into a suitcase. They stick their ovipositor through the gaps in the zipper. Or the newly hatched larvae themselves can sneak through.But there are aspects of the maggot’s life that have remained somewhat obscure. Martin Hall, a forensic entomologist at the Natural History Museum in London, thought that one part of the fly’s development in particular needed further study. The maggots are a bit like caterpillars in that at a certain point in their development they wrap themselves up in a case and go through one of the most astonishing events in the natural world: metamorphosis.In 10 days, the maggot, which has no legs or eyes and is something like “an animated sock,” Dr. Hall said, turns into the extraordinarily complex blowfly. No doubt blowflies are not as appealing as butterflies to most people, but chalk that up to a human bias for pretty fluttery things that land on flowers. It’s certainly not the fly’s fault. Any close-up image of its multifaceted, jewel-like eye shows that it is marvelous in its own way, even if it does feed on the dead.Dr. Hall and his colleagues used X-ray video and microscopic CT scans to create a record of those 10 days in more visual detail than ever before, which they reported in the journal Royal Society Open Science.The report concentrated on a remarkable period of about an hour and a half that occurs about 28 hours into the metamorphosis. In that brief time, the socklike maggot transforms its outer shape into that of the fly, “with head, thorax and abdomen.”This report is just about the new detail of the fly’s development, and the possibility that the technique could be useful in studying the metamorphoses of other insects inside their hard, opaque cases.Another paper will follow, Dr. Hall said, on how the visual record will be useful to detectives and others trying to determine when people and animals expired.
Will President Trump be able to make Mexico pay for his “big, beautiful wall”? Over the course of his campaign he offered a variety of ways to dip into pots of Mexican money.The latest, proposed on Thursday, was a 20 percent tax on imports from Mexico, which total roughly $300 billion in goods and services.Like other proposals Mr. Trump has floated — impounding remittances of Mexicans working in the United States, or charging Mexicans more for visas — it seems straightforward. But carrying it out would be another matter.For starters, a 20 percent tax on imports from Mexico would violate the North American Free Trade Agreement and most likely the rules of the World Trade Organization, which frowns on punitive levies imposed arbitrarily on imports from specific countries. (It is hard to tell from the tangle of announcements from Mr. Trump and his advisers whether they are planning a broad new tax regime that would affect all exports and imports. That, too, would most likely invite challenges at the W.T.O.)Mr. Trump, of course, has also talked about taking the United States out of the global trade accord. But that might seem a bit too drastic just to get Mexico to pay perhaps $20 billion for a wall. It is likely to impose enormous costs on the American and world economies, opening the door for a free-for-all trade war. But if the president did it anyway, the people paying the 20 percent tariff would not be Mexicans, but American consumers. That 2017 Ford Fusion built in Hermosillo, Mexico? It would no longer cost $22,610. It would cost $27,132.So what about the other ideas? The big one Mr. Trump mentioned early on is remittances. Mexico receives about $25 billion a year from Mexicans living abroad, mostly in the United States, in myriad transfers of a few hundred dollars apiece channeled primarily through services like Western Union and MoneyGram.Mr. Trump originally threatened to simply impound remittances, a matter of dubious legal standing and some logistical complication. Later he suggested a more sophisticated strategy. He would just threaten to change rules under the Patriot Act antiterrorism law to prohibit immigrants who couldn’t prove legal residence from wiring money abroad. Under threat of losing these resources, the reasoning went, the Mexican government would soon cave and offer to pay for the wall.Remittances are indeed a big deal for Mexico. In a foreign policy speech delivered on Monday, President Enrique Peña Nieto said that ensuring “the free flow of remittances from our compatriots living in the United States” was one of 10 core Mexican objectives in the renegotiation of its relationship with America.What Mr. Trump seems not to reckon with is that people find a way around barriers like these. Mexicans would come up with other conduits to send the $100 a week that their parents, children or siblings back home rely on to pay the bills. As the Government Accountability Office noted in a report published last year, these sorts of obstacles often have the effect of “pushing remittances out of formal financial systems to less detectable methods.”Or what about taxing remittances instead of impounding them? As Oklahoma discovered when it briefly imposed a fee on money transfers abroad in 2010, that would drive remittances into some other, untaxed channel. As Monica de Bolle of the Peterson Institute for International Economics notes, it might also reduce remittances, hitting consumption in Mexico and thus, probably, American exports.And it might be illegal, too. Kathleen Newland of the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group, said that taxing remittances just to Mexico would probably be challenged as discriminatory on the basis of national origin. After all, many people who send remittances are American citizens or legal residents. Taxing remittances only by illegal immigrants would be, to say the least, implausible.What about charging Mexicans more for visas and border cards? It would take a lot of them to add up to the cost of Mr. Trump’s barrier. What’s more, visa fees are dedicated by statute to finance United States consular activities around the world.Mr. Trump could probably find some Mexican money somewhere. Twelve million Mexicans live in the United States. Mexican companies have invested nearly $20 billion in the country. There are tons of flows of money between the two. The question is whether Mr. Trump can get at it without breaking the law.Gordon Hanson of the University of California, San Diego, notes that the two countries have an income tax treaty. That means that Washington agrees to tax Mexican residents subject to United States income tax at a reduced rate.“I suppose Trump could simply violate this treaty and subject Mexican residents in the United States at a higher rate and call this part of the payment,” he said.Perhaps none of this matters. Mr. Trump has acknowledged that how Mexico pays might be complicated, which suggests he may be open to calling any flow of money part of this payment. Or as Edward Alden of the Council on Foreign Relations suggests, Mr. Trump may not actually be looking for good ideas to subtly draw money from Mexico to pay for a wall, but instead to prove strength and to humiliate the United States’ southern neighbor.“Trump is focused on the optics,” he said. “He is not in the market for clever schemes.”Maybe cutting all aid to Mexico could help serve this purpose. It wouldn’t pay for much. And it would amount to shooting oneself in the foot. What little aid Mexico gets from Washington is mostly destined to help finance Mexico’s efforts to stop migrants from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras from traveling across Mexico and into the United States.But that might not matter anymore. When the dust settles on Mr. Trump’s rearrangement of relations with Mexico, Mexico is unlikely to keep lending a hand. The United States’ most effective tool to curb illegal immigration will be lost. And then his wall might come in handy.
Valentino’s spring/summer 2017 haute couture show was its first with Pierpaolo Piccioli alone at the helm — after Maria Grazia Chiuri departed for the artistic director job at Christian Dior (she presented her own first couture collection there this week). For his debut solo collection, Piccioli looked to Greek architecture and mythology. On the above image, we take a closer look at the making of one Valentino haute couture look.
A Massachusetts man was charged with hate crimes after he threatened an airline worker at Kennedy International Airport who was wearing a head scarf, kicked her and told her “Trump is here now” and “he will get rid of all of you,” officials said on Thursday.The man, Robin A. Rhodes, 57, of Worcester, Mass., arrived from Aruba on Wednesday night and was awaiting a connecting flight to Massachusetts when he approached the worker, Rabeeya Khan, in the Delta Air Lines Sky Club lounge at Terminal 2 between 7:10 p.m. and 9:45 p.m., the Queens district attorney, Richard A. Brown, said in a statement on Thursday. Ms. Khan wore a head scarf known as a hijab.Mr. Rhodes went to her office door and asked if she was sleeping and, according to the statement, said: “Are you praying? What are you doing?” He then punched the door, which hit the back of her chair. He threatened Ms. Khan and kicked her in the right leg, according to the statement. She moved to a corner of the office but he kicked the door, stepped into the office and blocked her from leaving.When another person tried to calm him, he moved away from the door and Ms. Khan ran to the front desk of the lounge, according to the statement. Mr. Rhodes followed her, got on his knees and began to bow down in imitation of a Muslim praying and shouted expletives about Islam and ISIS, the prosecutor’s office said.In an apparent reference to Muslims, he said, according to the prosecutor’s office: “You can ask Germany, Belgium and France about these kind of people. You will see what happens.”Mr. Rhodes was waiting to be arraigned on Thursday night. He did not yet have a lawyer, and he could not be reached. He was charged with assault, unlawful imprisonment, menacing and harassment as hate crimes, and related charges. If convicted, he could face up to four years in prison.The prosecutor’s office said Ms. Khan suffered “substantial pain” and redness in her right leg.The prosecutor’s office said that when he was arrested, Mr. Rhodes told the police: “I guess I am going to jail for disorderly conduct. I couldn’t tell if it was a man or woman because their back was to me and they had something covering their head.”
TOKYO — It has been nearly 250 years since a woman last held the title to Japan’s Chrysanthemum Throne, and almost that long since an emperor abdicated the position.Now, as Japan moves to accommodate Emperor Akihito’s desire to give up the throne before he dies, many Japanese believe it is also time to clear the way for a woman to reign again someday.In August, Emperor Akihito, 83, signaled that he wanted to step down, telling the nation that he worried he would not be able to fulfill his duties much longer. The Imperial Household Law, which governs the succession of emperors in the world’s oldest monarchy, makes no provision for abdication. But Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s governing party indicated this month that it would consider one-time legislation to let the emperor give up the throne.Polls show that a vast majority of the Japanese public believes the law should be permanently overhauled, not just superseded once. What’s more, the bulk of respondents said that the law, which has been in place since 1947, should also be changed to admit women as rightful heirs to the throne.People close to the emperor, a beloved figure in Japan, say that even he agrees.“If you look at his video message and read it deeply, he wants to reform the Imperial Household Law,” said Mototsugu Akashi, a friend of Emperor Akihito’s since childhood, who spoke to him by telephone last summer. “I don’t think he sticks to the narrow idea that only a male on the throne is acceptable.”This month, when a government-appointed panel tacitly recommended special legislation that would allow only Emperor Akihito to abdicate, it made no mention of the possibility of admitting women as heirs to the throne. Mr. Abe, a conservative, has not explicitly spoken on the subject, either.The issue remains contentious among conservative supporters of Mr. Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party, who fear that opening the Imperial Household Law to more permanent change would force a debate on female succession. They consider the male line of succession to be sacrosanct, and derailed a plan by a previous prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, to revise the Imperial Household Law to allow a woman to hold the throne.“The Japanese imperial system’s value does not lie in the blood of the current incumbent of the emperor’s throne, but the value is put in the blood that exists in a long lineage,” said Hidetsugu Yagi, professor of constitutional law at Reitaku University. “Repeating this male lineage is the value of the Japanese imperial system.”If the current emperor is allowed to abdicate, he will be succeeded by his eldest son, Crown Prince Naruhito, 56. If the Imperial Household Law changes to allow female successors, next in line would be the crown prince’s only child, Princess Aiko, 15. Under current law, his successor would be his nephew, Prince Hisahito, 10, the only boy of his generation in the imperial family.With so few male descendants left in the line of succession, Mr. Abe suggested this past week that other branches of the former imperial family could be accorded a status that would allow men in their lines to ascend to the throne. The largest opposition party, the Democratic Party, has proposed changing the law to allow women to reign.Until the 20th century, emperors kept concubines in order to ensure the birth of male heirs. No one has proposed reviving that practice.Japan is one of the few monarchies that do not allow women to reign. According to Naotaka Kimizuka, professor of European history and politics at Kanto Gakuin University, successors to the throne in the Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden, Norway and Spain are all young women.While the Japanese stipulation that the throne must pass through the male line dates back to the Meiji era in the 19th century, historians trace the dawn of the imperial system to the fourth or fifth century, although Japanese myth traces the emperor’s lineage back 2,700 years. In the 125 generations that have been recorded since, eight women were allowed to rule as empresses when no adult men were eligible at the time.Age or marital status ensured that these empresses did not bear children who would be fathered by men outside the imperial line, and they effectively served as placeholders until a man with a patrilineal claim came of age. The last empress, Gosakuramachi, reigned from 1762 to 1770 before her nephew succeeded her.Isao Tokoro, professor emeritus of legal history at Kyoto Sangyo University and an expert on the history of the imperial family, said that in the seventh and eighth centuries, Japanese law actually allowed women to reign as empresses. But that changed when Japan imported some tenets of government from China, adopting the concept of a male-only lineage for emperors. Even Japanese myth points to a female origin story for the imperial line: The first emperor, Jimmu, is said to have descended from the sun goddess Amaterasu 2,700 years ago.“Japan will be laughed at in the world if we keep saying” only men can inherit the throne, Mr. Tokoro said.In the modern era, the pressure to bear a son drove the current crown prince’s wife, Masako, a Harvard-educated former diplomat, into a deep depression.Her daughter, Princess Aiko, who loves animals and is a big fan of sumo wrestling, has also succumbed to the pressure of royal life. She was absent from school for nearly two months last fall. According to a report in Josei Seven, a weekly magazine, a person related to the imperial household described Princess Aiko as being “shocked with the intense attention she received as an imperial family member.”Observers of the royal family point out that whoever eventually marries Prince Hisahito will also be under great scrutiny.“That little boy’s wife is going to have the same kind of pressure that Masako had,” said Mihoko Suzuki, director of the Center for the Humanities at the University of Miami, who has written about women in European monarchies. “It’s going to ruin her life. It’s about this unthinking following of rules or tradition.”Dr. Suzuki noted that in Europe, female monarchs had helped redefine the range of possibilities for women. In England, for example, Elizabeth I “was not interested in women’s rights,” Dr. Suzuki said. “But what’s interesting is that women at the time and after her looked to her as somebody who actually affirmed what women can do.”Young women in Japan say that not allowing women to assume the imperial throne is just another form of discrimination and that it stems from the same patriarchal impulse that requires married couples to use one surname — which usually results in the woman taking her husband’s last name.“I work every day, and face the male-centered system,” said Kanako Yoshida, 27, a computer programmer in the Kanagawa prefecture.“There are very few women in management, and changes take place very slowly,” she said. “Like Queen Elizabeth in England, if Princess Aiko becomes the emperor, things may change in society.”
TOKYO — It has been nearly 250 years since a woman last held the title to Japan’s Chrysanthemum Throne, and almost that long since an emperor abdicated the position.Now, as Japan moves to accommodate Emperor Akihito’s desire to give up the throne before he dies, many Japanese believe it is also time to clear the way for a woman to reign again someday.In August, Emperor Akihito, 83, signaled that he wanted to step down, telling the nation that he worried he would not be able to fulfill his duties much longer. The Imperial Household Law, which governs the succession of emperors in the world’s oldest monarchy, makes no provision for abdication. But Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s governing party indicated this month that it would consider one-time legislation to let the emperor give up the throne.Polls show that a vast majority of the Japanese public believes the law should be permanently overhauled, not just superseded once. What’s more, the bulk of respondents said that the law, which has been in place since 1947, should also be changed to admit women as rightful heirs to the throne.People close to the emperor, a beloved figure in Japan, say that even he agrees.“If you look at his video message and read it deeply, he wants to reform the Imperial Household Law,” said Mototsugu Akashi, a friend of Emperor Akihito’s since childhood, who spoke to him by telephone last summer. “I don’t think he sticks to the narrow idea that only a male on the throne is acceptable.”This month, when a government-appointed panel tacitly recommended special legislation that would allow only Emperor Akihito to abdicate, it made no mention of the possibility of admitting women as heirs to the throne. Mr. Abe, a conservative, has not explicitly spoken on the subject, either.The issue remains contentious among conservative supporters of Mr. Abe’s Liberal Democratic Party, who fear that opening the Imperial Household Law to more permanent change would force a debate on female succession. They consider the male line of succession to be sacrosanct, and derailed a plan by a previous prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, to revise the Imperial Household Law to allow a woman to hold the throne.“The Japanese imperial system’s value does not lie in the blood of the current incumbent of the emperor’s throne, but the value is put in the blood that exists in a long lineage,” said Hidetsugu Yagi, professor of constitutional law at Reitaku University. “Repeating this male lineage is the value of the Japanese imperial system.”If the current emperor is allowed to abdicate, he will be succeeded by his eldest son, Crown Prince Naruhito, 56. If the Imperial Household Law changes to allow female successors, next in line would be the crown prince’s only child, Princess Aiko, 15. Under current law, his successor would be his nephew, Prince Hisahito, 10, the only boy of his generation in the imperial family.With so few male descendants left in the line of succession, Mr. Abe suggested this past week that other branches of the former imperial family could be accorded a status that would allow men in their lines to ascend to the throne. The largest opposition party, the Democratic Party, has proposed changing the law to allow women to reign.Until the 20th century, emperors kept concubines in order to ensure the birth of male heirs. No one has proposed reviving that practice.Japan is one of the few monarchies that do not allow women to reign. According to Naotaka Kimizuka, professor of European history and politics at Kanto Gakuin University, successors to the throne in the Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden, Norway and Spain are all young women.While the Japanese stipulation that the throne must pass through the male line dates back to the Meiji era in the 19th century, historians trace the dawn of the imperial system to the fourth or fifth century, although Japanese myth traces the emperor’s lineage back 2,700 years. In the 125 generations that have been recorded since, eight women were allowed to rule as empresses when no adult men were eligible at the time.Age or marital status ensured that these empresses did not bear children who would be fathered by men outside the imperial line, and they effectively served as placeholders until a man with a patrilineal claim came of age. The last empress, Gosakuramachi, reigned from 1762 to 1770 before her nephew succeeded her.Isao Tokoro, professor emeritus of legal history at Kyoto Sangyo University and an expert on the history of the imperial family, said that in the seventh and eighth centuries, Japanese law actually allowed women to reign as empresses. But that changed when Japan imported some tenets of government from China, adopting the concept of a male-only lineage for emperors. Even Japanese myth points to a female origin story for the imperial line: The first emperor, Jimmu, is said to have descended from the sun goddess Amaterasu 2,700 years ago.“Japan will be laughed at in the world if we keep saying” only men can inherit the throne, Mr. Tokoro said.In the modern era, the pressure to bear a son drove the current crown prince’s wife, Masako, a Harvard-educated former diplomat, into a deep depression.Her daughter, Princess Aiko, who loves animals and is a big fan of sumo wrestling, has also succumbed to the pressure of royal life. She was absent from school for nearly two months last fall. According to a report in Josei Seven, a weekly magazine, a person related to the imperial household described Princess Aiko as being “shocked with the intense attention she received as an imperial family member.”Observers of the royal family point out that whoever eventually marries Prince Hisahito will also be under great scrutiny.“That little boy’s wife is going to have the same kind of pressure that Masako had,” said Mihoko Suzuki, director of the Center for the Humanities at the University of Miami, who has written about women in European monarchies. “It’s going to ruin her life. It’s about this unthinking following of rules or tradition.”Dr. Suzuki noted that in Europe, female monarchs had helped redefine the range of possibilities for women. In England, for example, Elizabeth I “was not interested in women’s rights,” Dr. Suzuki said. “But what’s interesting is that women at the time and after her looked to her as somebody who actually affirmed what women can do.”Young women in Japan say that not allowing women to assume the imperial throne is just another form of discrimination and that it stems from the same patriarchal impulse that requires married couples to use one surname — which usually results in the woman taking her husband’s last name.“I work every day, and face the male-centered system,” said Kanako Yoshida, 27, a computer programmer in the Kanagawa prefecture.“There are very few women in management, and changes take place very slowly,” she said. “Like Queen Elizabeth in England, if Princess Aiko becomes the emperor, things may change in society.”
Masaya Nakamura, a Japanese toy and game entrepreneur whose company’s most enduring creation, Pac-Man, became a worldwide cultural touchstone, died on Jan. 22. He was 91.His death was announced on Monday by Bandai Namco, the business where he retained the title of honorary adviser. No cause was given, and the company did not say where he died.Mr. Nakamura began making a business of amusement in 1955. A decade after Japan’s calamitous defeat in World War II, the country’s economy was springing back to life, and the somber mood of the first postwar decade was retreating. Japanese were ready to embrace fun and games again.His first venture — installing two wooden horses for children to ride on the roof of a department store — was simple, and turned into a modest success.Rooftops gave him more success as time went on. In the early 1960s, he secured a deal with Mitsukoshi, a leading Japanese department store chain, to install another children’s ride, this one using small replica automobiles running on tracks, on the roof of its flagship Tokyo location. The attraction, Roadway Rides, proved popular, and Mitsukoshi commissioned it for all of its stores.Real fame and fortune came later, with the rise of video games.Mr. Nakamura was an early believer in their potential. In the 1970s, he hired software engineers and directed his growing company, Nakamura Manufacturing — later renamed Namco — to develop titles for arcades. His first hit was Galaxian, a Space Invaders derivative that he sold to the American company Midway Games in 1979. Pac-Man was born the next year.It was conceived by a 25-year-old Namco employee, Toru Iwatani, who would later say that he was inspired by the shape of a pizza with a slice missing. The “Pac” came from the Japanese onomatopoeic word “pakku,” equivalent to the English “gobble” or “munch.”And as fast as Pac-Man could gobble up pellets in his maze, players gobbled up Pac-Man.“I never thought it would be this big,” Mr. Nakamura told an interviewer in 1983, after the game took the world by storm. “You know baseball? Well, I knew it would not be a single. But I thought maybe a double, not a home run.”The game spawned spinoffs (Ms. Pac-Man, among others), an animated television series and voluminous merchandise. The Buckner and Garcia novelty song “Pac-Man Fever” reached No. 9 on the Billboard singles chart in 1982.Pac-Man also came up in more recent pop cultural offerings like the animated sitcom “Family Guy,” which showed Pac-Man despondent after a breakup with Ms. Pac-Man; the film “Scott Pilgrim vs. the World” (2010), in which the title character, played by Michael Cera, uses the history of Pac-Man’s name as an ineffective icebreaker; and Ernest Cline’s best-selling science fiction novel “Ready Player One,” in which the protagonist plays a perfect, and very consequential, game. Billy Mitchell is widely credited with actually playing the first perfect game, in 1999.In the decades since Pac-Man’s release, video games have grown increasingly violent and complicated, but Pac-Man remains child-friendly, accessible and challenging. Versions of Pac-Man or one of its spinoffs exist on different gaming platforms and are readily available online. Millions of work hours were squandered after Google released a playable version of the game on its home page in 2010.In the 36 years since its release, it is estimated to have been played more than 10 billion times. The Smithsonian Institution and the Museum of Modern Art have Pac-Man machines in their collections.Mr. Nakamura was not a game designer. But unlike his rival and contemporary Hiroshi Yamauchi, the longtime president of Nintendo, who was said never to play video games, Mr. Nakamura tested Namco’s products intensively. Employees said he would play for up to 23 hours a day before a game’s introduction.Despite that habit — or perhaps because of it — he warned against what today would be called screen addiction.“I am a little concerned about the way some young people play it so much,” he said at the height of the Pac-Man craze. “Once it goes beyond a certain level, it is not good for young people.”Namco continued to develop video games, though none could top Pac-Man’s success. The company expanded into other businesses, including a chain of food-themed amusement parks in Japan, most of which have closed or been sold off. In 1993 it bought the bankrupt Japanese film studio Nikkatsu, known for output ranging from samurai epics to soft-core pornography.Mr. Nakamura led Namco until 2002, when he took on a more ceremonial role. When Namco merged with a rival toy and game maker, Bandai, in 2005, public tax records indicated that Mr. Nakamura was Japan’s 68th-richest person.Born in Yokohama, Japan, on Dec. 24, 1925, Mr. Nakamura attended what is now Yokohama National University. He studied shipbuilding, according to a short résumé provided by Bandai Namco.The company did not release information on survivors, citing what it said was his family’s wish for privacy.
Max Wilcox, a classical record producer and engineer who won five Grammy Awards, and whom the pianist Arthur Rubinstein called his musical collaborator, died on Jan. 20 in Seattle. He was 88.The cause was complications of a stroke and Alzheimer’s disease, his son, Scot Robinson, said.For 17 years, until Rubinstein’s retirement in 1976, Mr. Wilcox produced some 60 of his recordings for RCA Victor Red Seal. He counted Rubinstein’s recordings of Chopin’s repertoire among his favorite productions.His other favorites included recordings of Beethoven by the pianist Richard Goode and the Emerson String Quartet.In addition to the Grammys Mr. Wilcox won as a producer, recordings he produced won 17.Mr. Wilcox came from a musical family and was himself an accomplished pianist; his performances included one in 1973 with Rubinstein and the Liverpool Philharmonic. He also conducted, at Carnegie Hall and elsewhere.While he never considered himself a “techie,” as he put it, he advanced several technical developments as a recording engineer, including the use of omnidirectional microphones to emulate concert-hall acoustics.As an engineer, it was his job to position the microphones before each session and, once the recording was completed, to splice together the best version of however many takes had been performed. Rubinstein, he said, trusted his judgment entirely.“Arthur Rubinstein never chose a take in his life with me,” Mr. Wilcox told The Los Angeles Times in 2007.Max George Wilcox was born on Dec. 27, 1928, in Kalamazoo, Mich. His father, Cecil, was a struggling entrepreneur who sold ice cut from Lake Michigan and later invented a foot balm. His mother, the former Maxine Shand, was a retail saleswoman who played the saxophone in a touring family band with Max’s grandmother and aunt.He decided he wanted to become a record producer, he said, when he was 12, and started avidly collecting classical records. His grandmother taught him to play the piano. Mr. Wilcox received a bachelor’s degree in music from Western Michigan College (now Western Michigan University) and a master’s from Columbia University, and studied under the pianist and composer Eduard Steuermann. He enlisted in the Army and served in the intelligence division.His marriages to Carol Thompson and Judith Sherman ended in divorce. In addition to his son, Scot, and a daughter, Jennifer Wells, both from his first marriage, he is survived by two grandchildren. (Another son, David, died recently.)Mr. Wilcox joined RCA Victor as a sound editor in 1958 and later moved up to engineer and then producer. The prominent artists he produced there, in addition to Rubinstein, included Itzhak Perlman; Gregor Piatigorsky; Peter Serkin; Van Cliburn; the Guarneri and Cleveland Quartets; Eugene Ormandy and the Philadelphia Orchestra; and Charles Munch and the Boston Symphony.After leaving RCA to become an independent producer in 1974, he worked with Dawn Upshaw, Richard Stoltzman, Zubin Mehta, the Orpheus Chamber Orchestra, the Tokyo Quartet, the Beaux-Arts Trio, Deborah Voigt and others.Mr. Wilcox considered all his sessions with Rubinstein memorable, but some were more memorable than others. In 1963, for example, the maestro, then 76, was scheduled to record over several days at a studio in Rome.Playing the affable host as if he were at home, Rubinstein started at 6:45 one summer evening and, pleased with the results, kept going. By 11:15, all 14 Chopin waltzes had been recorded.“We were all limp — but not Rubinstein,” Mr. Wilcox recalled. “The party on the Via Veneto lasted until 2:30 a.m.”
NBC is looking to place its new star Megyn Kelly in the morning hours.Ms. Kelly, who announced this month that she was leaving Fox News for NBC, will start at the network in May, and plans are beginning to take shape for her new show, according to two people briefed on the discussions.Ms. Kelly is being considered for a time slot at 9 or 10 a.m., for a show that is expected to begin in the fall. If she moves to 10 a.m., the popular fourth hour of “Today,” hosted by Kathie Lee Gifford and Hoda Kotb, would move to 9 a.m.One thing that is known for sure: The current iteration of the third hour of “Today,” hosted by Tamron Hall and Al Roker, will be a thing of the past once Ms. Kelly’s show begins.Ms. Kelly’s apparent move to the morning, which Variety reported earlier, removes her from the tricky minefield of syndicated daytime TV. Other TV news hosts, including Jane Pauley, Meredith Vieira and Katie Couric, have tried their hand at the format and failed.That was one of the reasons that NBC initially planned to make Ms. Kelly’s show a straight news show; because other anchors could not make it work, the network saw no reason to try that strategy again.But in recent weeks, NBC executives have had more of an open mind over what direction her show should take: There have been discussions about whether it should be softer in focus than what was originally discussed, one person briefed on the plans said. They also have not decided whether Ms. Kelly’s show would be branded as part of the “Today” show or not.If Ms. Kelly locked up the 9 a.m. hour, it would also set up an intriguing battle royal that would pit her against another longtime morning host, ABC’s Kelly Ripa.The 9 a.m. hour for “Today” has long been a tricky proposition for NBC: Facing formidable competition against Ms. Ripa’s “Live With Kelly,” the network has tried a number of solutions, including bringing in Billy Bush last year. Shortly after Mr. Bush was brought in to host, he was let go after the infamous “Access Hollywood” recording of him and Mr. Trump was released in October.Mr. Roker will continue to work on the early parts of “Today.” And Ms. Hall, who is in contract negotiations with the network, will continue to host her MSNBC show.There are no concrete plans yet for the Sunday night newsmagazine show that NBC plans to have Ms. Kelly host, the people said.Fox News has not missed a beat since Ms. Kelly left her 9 p.m. time slot. Tucker Carlson, who replaced Ms. Kelly this month, has seen big ratings gains in the busy news weeks since his debut.
PARIS — It was Friday night, Jan. 20, and by historical coincidence, the Givenchy men’s wear show and the 58th United States presidential inauguration were competing for an audience. In the magnificent and freezing Richelieu-Louvois library of the Bibliothèque Nationale de France, groups of American magazine editors clustered around their smartphones, streaming footage from abroad.The editors of GQ magazine watched and wondered about the outfits (the first lady, Melania Trump, wore Ralph Lauren, one informed another); a press officer, ushering guests to their seats, said he had spent the morning glued to CNN, reluctantly rapt. (There to get coverage for his client, and not himself, he declined to say more.)Even those not watching were magnetized, if not pulled toward the event, then pushed away.“I have imposed a blackout on myself, for my mental health,” said Michael Hainey, the executive director of editorial at Esquire. “It’ll be there when I get back.”But a true blackout probably isn’t possible. If you accept that fashion holds a mirror to the culture, then you have to grit your teeth and see it reflected in the glass. The political churnings of the past year — in the United States, in Britain, in Italy and in France — have all registered, however obliquely.Some designers shied away from overt political standard-bearing. “There’s no point in being a running commentary,” said Jonathan Anderson, the creative director of the Spanish leather specialist Loewe, adding, “Ultimately, history does just repeat itself.” Revolutions, like the seasons, recur. But in what felt like a mordant joke, he had affixed a small parachute to the back of buttery leather backpack, for if and when the time came to jump.Others embraced the unrest and the indignities of the age. Serhat Isik and Benjamin Alexander Huseby, the pair behind the new line GmbH (the German shorthand for “limited liability company,” essentially the German equivalent of “Inc.” or “Ltd.”), began designing together in Berlin. And their collection has a club-ready sense of flamboyant abandon: They showed several glossy pairs of PVC trousers. But they hinted at an uneasy reality outside the clubs.Mr. Isik, a first generation Berliner of Turkish extraction, and Mr. Huseby, a Norwegian-Pakistani photographer who grew up feeling like “the only brown person on the Norwegian countryside,” made a point of including brown-skinned, ethnically ambiguous models: guys like them. On the back of one shirt they had stitched the phrase “Randomly Chosen” — an ironic nod to allegedly random searches at airports and borders, which claim to be indiscriminate but often target those with darker skin..“When we travel, we always hear that,” Mr. Huseby said dryly.Maybe it was happenstance that, as President Trump spent months campaigning on his business experience, the idea of business and businessmen seeped into collections, even if only to be batted away. Jonny Johansson, the creative director of Acne, said he started designing his new collection with the notion of “an ’80s businessman.” Mr. Johansson waited a beat. “I had to reform him.”His models wore suits and tailored jackets, but they came in the kind of bulky, hairy fabrics and modishly rounded shapes unlikely ever to be seen in a boardroom.“Nobody wants to be a businessman anymore,” Mr. Johansson said. Speaking of the newly sworn-in president as his models, young men who looked more like student revolutionaries than future executives, walked a makeshift runway across a lecturer’s desk at the Université Paris Descartes in central Paris, Mr. Johansson added: “I don’t think that young people relate to him. I think that old people do.”Demna Gvasalia, the Balenciaga artistic director, had been thinking of businessmen, too. His collection offered “a new set of proposals on the subject of corporate dressing,” according to a primly printed notecard on every seat. Mr. Gvasalia sent out strong-shouldered suits and tailored overcoats, whiffing of ’80s corporate sharkdom. But it should be said that most bankers choose to wear pants under their long coats, and only some of Mr. Gvasalia’s, who trooped in thigh-high socks and boxer shorts, did. A modest proposal, that.François-Henri Pinault, the chairman and chief executive of Kering, Balenciaga’s parent company and one of the major corporate fashion groups of France, sat front row. He looked tickled that a model in a hoodie printed with the Kering logo had sauntered by.Mr. Pinault explained that Mr. Gvasalia came to him first to ask permission to use Kering iconography on his clothes.“I said, ‘It’s part of creation,’” Mr. Pinault said. “‘Don’t wait on me.’”He did not see the result until the show. He noted that several of the models also had Kering logos painted on their fingernails.Will the show inspire you to make a change in the office dress code, Mr. Pinault?“We’ll have to,” he said in reply.
Q. I got an email on my iPhone from “Apple iMessages” saying my user name and password had been used to log into an iPhone 6. I do have an iPhone 6, but if this is spam, how do they know? I am temporarily ignoring this, but what do I do now?A. For years, online criminals have tried variations of the account-security email for Apple’s iMessages, iTunes and iCloud services to lure recipients into clicking on malicious links or providing Apple ID account information. By including the name of the iPhone model in the message, the sender is hoping to get your attention with specifics. Adding the name of a model still in widespread use broadens the potential audience for the message.Even if the return address on the message says it is from Apple (or one of its services), you can usually see the account it really came from by tapping the sender’s name in the message header. The next screen shows the actual address. If it is clearly not from Apple, forward the message to reportphishing@apple.com.For more information, search Apple’s support site for its page of other tips for dealing with suspicious email. If you think that you may have been hacked, the site has a set of guidelines for compromised Apple ID accounts, along with instructions for seeing a list of the devices that are using your Apple ID credentials.Online criminals target Apple ID accounts because they often are linked to credit cards for iTunes or App Store purchases. (Amazon accounts, Google accounts, bank accounts and so on are similarly linked.) Shoring up your personal security with two-step verification and regularly changing your password can help keep your account more secure — for your Apple ID and any other e-commerce or social media services you use.
MEXICO CITY — President Donald J. Trump’s decision to build a wall along the southern border escalated into a diplomatic standoff on Thursday, with Mexico’s president publicly canceling a scheduled meeting at the White House and Mr. Trump firing back, accusing Mexico of burdening the United States with illegal immigrants, criminals and a trade deficit.Mr. Trump’s push to fulfill his campaign pledge and build a border wall brought to a head months of simmering tensions, culminating in a remarkable back-and-forth between the two leaders.By afternoon, Mr. Trump’s spokesman said the president would pay for the border wall by imposing a 20 percent tax on imports to the United States, which he said would raise billions of dollars.The sparring began Thursday morning when the president of Mexico announced on Twitter that he was canceling his meeting with Mr. Trump next week, rejecting the visit after the new American leader ordered the border wall between the two nations.Having called for dialogue in the face of Mr. Trump’s vows to build a wall during the American presidential campaign, President Enrique Peña Nieto ultimately bowed to public pressure in Mexico to respond more forcefully to his northern neighbor.On Wednesday, Mr. Trump signed an executive order to beef up the nation’s deportation force and start construction on a new wall along the border. Adding to the perceived insult was the timing of the order: It came on the first day of talks between top Mexican officials and their counterparts in Washington, and just days before the meeting between the two presidents.Mr. Trump’s action was enough to prompt Mr. Peña Nieto to start discussing whether to scrap his plans to visit the White House, according to Mexican officials. In a video message delivered over Twitter on Wednesday night, Mr. Peña Nieto reiterated his commitment to protect the interests of Mexico and the Mexican people, and he chided the move in Washington to continue with the wall.“I regret and condemn the United States’ decision to continue with the construction of a wall that, for years now, far from uniting us, divides us,” he said.Then on Thursday morning, Mr. Trump fired back, warning that he might cancel the meeting himself if Mexico did not agree to pay for the wall.Just before Mr. Trump fired off his Twitter post, the Mexican foreign minister and Mr. Trump’s Homeland Security secretary, John F. Kelly, were preparing to see each other for a scheduled 11:30 a.m. meeting.According to a senior American official, the secretary had been briefed. The appropriate flags had been arranged by the protocol staff at the Department of Homeland Security. Then, just as American officials greeted the minister outside the department’s headquarters in Northwest Washington, the minister received word from Mexico that he was being pulled back, the official said. The meeting never happened.By early afternoon, Mr. Trump said it was the United States that was being treated unfairly.“We have agreed to cancel our planned meeting,” Mr. Trump said in a new conference Thursday afternoon. “Unless Mexico is going to treat the U.S. fairly, with respect, such a meeting would be fruitless, and I want to go a different route. We have no choice.”In Mexico, Mr. Peña Nieto had little political room to maneuver. With Mr. Trump’s order to build the wall, the perceived insults Mexico had endured during the campaign had finally turned into action. Decades of friendly relations between the nations — on matters involving trade, security and migration — seemed to be unraveling.Calls began to come in from across the political spectrum for Mr. Peña Nieto to cancel his visit, and to respond with greater fortitude to the perceived menace from President Trump. On Twitter, Mr. Trump’s action was referred to by politicians and historians as a “an offense to Mexico,” a “slap in the face” and a “monument to lies.”Historians said that not since President Calvin Coolidge threatened to invade a “Soviet Mexico” had the United States so deeply antagonized the Mexican populace.“It is an unprecedented moment for the bilateral relationship,” said Genaro Lozano, a professor at the Iberoamerican University in Mexico City. “In the 19th century, we fought a war with the U.S.; now we find ourselves in a low-intensity war, a commercial one over Nafta and an immigration war due to the measures he just announced.”
If you’re an actress stuck with a single fashion brand for the entire awards season, how do you keep your choices fresh?If you’re Michelle Williams, who wears Louis Vuitton exclusively on the red carpet, you work with the stylist Kate Young on custom pieces that, as Ms. Young said, “are not totally out of left field.”“We try to work from a runway piece if possible,” she said. “I like real fashion. I don’t like to design these bizarre dresses that don’t have anything to do with a collection.”So perhaps it’s a color tweak, or Ms. Young may create a mood board incorporating trim details from Vuitton’s latest runway show. There is a running thread, though. Ms. Williams, who received a Screen Actors Guild award nomination for best supporting actress for her work in “Manchester by the Sea” — the show is Sunday — always aims for “cool and fashionable,” Ms. Young said, “but also the gamin little French girl thing, which works because there’s a sweetness to her.”Ms. Williams may tread in sweet, but it’s not the toothache kind. At the Golden Globe Awards, she wore a typically romantic silhouette: an off-the-shoulder dove-gray gown with white lace overlay. The daring move? She skipped the diamond necklace in favor of a simple black ribbon tied in a bow.More often, though, Ms. Williams wears prim necklines. Last month at the Critics’ Choice Awards, she covered her collarbones in a black-and-white column that ended just above her ankles; at the New York Film Circle Awards, she bared her legs in a gold-accented black cocktail dress, but her cleavage was nowhere in sight. (The monotone solid shades aren’t purposeful, Ms. Young said. The Louis Vuitton collection is short on pattern and more into textures.)Ms. Williams is no Annie Hall, but even when she bares slices of skin, chances are she is still well covered: the drape-y burnt orange runway dress recreated in white with a cutout at the hip that she wore for the “Manchester by the Sea” premiere in November, and the black gown cinched at one shoulder worn at the “Certain Women” premiere at the New York Film Festival in October.“The higher neckline is flattering on her, and she doesn’t have the hair-down option,” Ms. Young said, referring to Ms. Williams’s pixie. “With her short hair, a lower neckline can feel super-bare.”“There are definite types of women for evening,” Ms. Young added. “She’s not the sexy-slutty type. She’d rather show a leg. She’s more of a fashion girl than a slutty girl.”Yet don’t count out Ms. Williams’s ability to surprise. At the Governors Awards in November, she shimmered in a sheer black embellished black gown that revealed swaths of leg, torso and chest. (It was Ms. Young’s favorite of this awards season so far.) There was also the strapless yellow-tinged gray frock Ms. Williams wore at the BFI London Film Festival in October, and a white T-shirt dress with drastic asymmetrical hem worn at a Tiffany & Company party in September.In her boldest departure from uniform (a covert nod to Oscar gold?), Ms. Williams appeared in a striking one-shoulder gold gown in September at the Toronto International Film Festival. The silhouette was unusual for the actress. “That was a custom gown that Louis Vuitton made, and it was not in collaboration with me even,” Ms. Young said. “They just made it and sent it, and it was great.”“From far away, it looked like sequins,” Ms. Young added. “But if you looked up close, it had weird grommets on it, which made it awesome. The thing about Michelle is that she’s versatile. She can pull off high fashion.”
SEATTLE — At Microsoft, cloud computing is the future, and investors are happy as long as the company keeps delivering growth from it.Microsoft did just that on Thursday when it released financial results for the last three months of 2016, reporting 4 percent growth in its overall earnings. As a bonus, Microsoft’s older Windows software business did not perform too badly either.For several years, Microsoft has sought to shed its reputation as a stodgy seller of traditional software, highly dependent on the ups and downs of the personal computing market. The company misfired along the way as it competed head-on with Google in internet search and Apple in smartphones.But under Satya Nadella, its chief executive, Microsoft has found success in moving its software businesses like Office to the cloud, and creating businesses to compete with Amazon in the booming market for hosting computing chores in data centers. Cloud computing represents one of the biggest shifts in technology, in which applications and other computing functions are handled in data centers connected to the internet, rather than locally.Microsoft’s shares, which languished for years, are now trading near record highs. After its results were released, the company’s stock rose almost 1 percent to $64.27.More recently, Microsoft completed its biggest acquisition, a $26.2 billion deal for LinkedIn, the professional social network, which it plans to use to improve its cloud applications. The quarter, which ended Dec. 31, was the first to include revenue from LinkedIn, though only a few weeks’ worth because the acquisition was not final until Dec. 8.For the quarter, Microsoft reported net income of $5.2 billion, or 66 cents a share, compared with $5.02 billion, or 62 cents a share, during the period a year earlier.Revenue rose to $24.09 billion from $23.8 billion a year ago.With adjustments to exclude results from LinkedIn and the impact of nearly $2 billion in deferred revenue related to its Windows 10 operating system, Microsoft earned 84 cents a share and revenue of $25.84 billion, exceeding the estimates of Wall Street analysts, who also excluded those items from their forecasts.The average analyst estimate compiled by Thomson Reuters had called for Microsoft earnings of 79 cents a share and revenue of $25.28 billion.Sales from the company’s Azure cloud computing business, which caters to businesses that want to move basic computing functions into Microsoft’s data centers, increased 93 percent from a year ago. Revenue for intelligent cloud, Microsoft’s name for the category that includes Azure, rose 8 percent to $6.9 billion.“We know their cloud business is doing well,” said Christopher Voce, an analyst at Forrester Research. “They delivered on that front.”Microsoft’s Office business also had strong results as more of its customers signed on to use a subscription version of Office 365 software. Revenue in the Microsoft category dominated by Office rose 10 percent to $7.4 billion.The category also benefited from $228 million in revenue that LinkedIn brought in for Microsoft after the acquisition closed. LinkedIn showed an operating loss during that period of $201 million.One of the biggest surprises of the quarter was a 5 percent increase in the revenue Microsoft received from personal computer makers for licenses to its Windows software. Windows revenue that Microsoft received from agreements with corporate customers rose by the same amount.The personal computer market has been in a slump for years as buyers have shifted to newer categories of devices like tablets and smartphones. In the last three months of 2016, worldwide personal computer shipments fell 3.7 percent, according to Gartner, the technology research firm.But Microsoft, which is based in Redmond, Wash., still occasionally outperforms the overall market, especially during a surge in sales of higher-end personal computers. In an interview, Amy Hood, Microsoft’s chief financial officer, said that corporations were increasing their deployments of Windows 10 on their personal computers and that innovative new machines aimed at consumers sold well.“We’re feeling very good about growth in the PC segment," Ms. Hood said.
Since President Trump closed the country to people from seven predominantly Muslim countries, immigration agents have wrongly told some travelers arriving legally that they must sign documents forfeiting their right to enter, according to immigration lawyers and migrants.Some people — it is not clear how many — holding valid visas signed the forms and were sent away, they say; others refused to sign, were detained and were allowed to enter the United States after hours or days in custody. Lawyers for those migrants asserted that some immigration agents did not explain the documents that travelers were being told to sign and threatened them, without any legal basis, with being barred from the country for years if they did not comply.The people affected are from countries whose citizens are barred for 90 days from travel to the United States, under an executive order Mr. Trump signed on Friday: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. The president said the nation needed tougher screening to prevent infiltration by Islamist terrorists.Immigrant advocates obtained court orders blocking implementation of parts of that order. But lawyers who flocked to a number of airports to represent migrants said United States Customs and Border Protection agents there repeatedly resorted to coercion and deception to deny entry.The Department of Homeland Security, which includes Customs and Border Protection, said it could not comment on matters under litigation. It referred questions about airport procedures to the customs agency, which did not respond to requests for comment.After visiting her parents in Austria, Sara Yarjani, an Iranian, flew back to California, where she is a master’s degree student.At Los Angeles International Airport, she said, she was questioned repeatedly, searched and ordered to remove her shoelaces, shawl and jewelry. She spent 23 hours in detention and said she could hear immigration officers debating the policy, uncertain of what to do. Finally, she said, an officer said she could not enter the country because her student visa was no longer valid, though he would not explain why. Her lawyers said the officer was wrong.Ms. Yarjani, 35, said the officer told her, “Either you comply and agree to leave voluntarily, by signing a document, or if you do not comply we will have to forcibly deport you, which will face you with a re-entry ban to the United States of one to five years or longer.”“It was very traumatizing and scary,” said Ms. Yarjani, who is studying holistic health. “It felt surreal and hard to believe that was actually happening.”On Saturday night, as armed officers walked her to a flight to Austria, she saw that a judge had halted deportations. She alerted the officers, but they ignored her and put her on the plane.Saba, an Iranian graduate student, rented an apartment in Manhattan last year and bought furniture and dishes for it. On Saturday, when she returned from a trip to Europe, an immigration officer at Kennedy International Airport told her that she could not enter.“I was crying. I couldn’t even talk,” said Saba, who did not want her surname used, but showed The New York Times her student visa, with a 2018 expiration date.At an officer’s direction, she said, she signed a small electronic window, like the ones used for credit card purchases, without knowing what she was signing. Then the officer gave her a copy of the form and told her that she had voluntarily withdrawn her application to enter the country.“I said: ‘No, it’s you telling me to leave. I’m not willing to!’” she said. “He said: ‘It’s better this way, ma’am. Otherwise I have to force you.’”She was put on a flight to Switzerland, her visa stamped in big red letters: “Canceled — N.Y.C. application withdrawn.”Hesam, an Iranian-born American citizen, helped his ailing parents, who do not speak English, get immigrant visas, and they arrived on Saturday in Abu Dhabi for a connecting flight to Los Angeles. He said the American immigration agents there enlisted a translator, who spoke an unfamiliar dialect and told them they would benefit from signing a form they could not read.They did, and on Sunday they were flown back to Tehran.“They said, ‘Well, the way they presented it, we thought it’s a normal process, we have to do this,’” said Hesam, who did not want his surname used because he feared jeopardizing his parents’ case. It should have been “the best day of my life,” he said, but instead, “it turns out to be one of the worst days of our lives.”Two brothers from Yemen, a country racked by civil war, were detained at Dulles International Airport in Virginia on Saturday, and put on a flight to Ethiopia hours later, according to a federal lawsuit filed on Monday. After years of effort, the brothers, Tareq Aqel Mohammed Aziz, 21, and Ammar Aqel Mohammed Aziz, 19, had obtained immigrant visas to join their father, an American citizen.“They were told falsely that there would be all these negative consequences if they chose not to sign the forms in front of them, like being barred from coming back for five years,” said Simon Y. Sandoval-Moshenberg of the Legal Aid Justice Center, one of the lawyers who filed the suit.Administration officials at first said even legal permanent residents of the United States could not return, but later said they could. There is still confusion about whether the order applies to people with temporary visas.“They want you to sign so they can say they didn’t deport you, you left voluntarily,” said Becca Heller, director of the International Refugee Assistance Project, one of the groups that obtained a court order.“One of the plaintiffs in our lawsuit, they kept telling one of them, ‘Just sign this and you can go,’ and he didn’t know what it was because he only spoke Arabic,” she said. The man refused to sign, and was later released.
MIND mapping is a method for outlining thoughts visually. You can draw mind maps on paper, but they become even more useful when created in an app.MindNode, for iOS devices, makes mind maps look professional.A typical mind map is drawn around an idea, with lots of spider-leglike “nodes” that spread out from the center, each corresponding to a subsection of the idea.MindNode makes the process easy. With just a few taps, you can start a map with a bubble containing the name of a project or a descriptive title, and quickly add and label nodes.MindNode handles formatting of the nodes and their arrangement on the page for you. You just have to type in your ideas and tap on the screen a few times as you create a new map. The app keeps out of your way, so it doesn’t interrupt your thought processes.The interface is minimal, and previously entered information can be edited easily, either by changing what you wrote or moving ideas to a new position on the screen. You are not limited to text-only mind maps either, since you can drop images onto the page as extra visual cues.The app offers different color themes so users can change how their mind maps appear. MindNode is relatively expensive at $10.Mind Vector is another decent mind-mapping app, available for iOS and Android. It has features similar to MindNode’s, but it produces bolder, more colorful maps. You can even choose images as backgrounds.This app also features visualization modes so that connected ideas can be viewed in various ways — for example, as a treelike system of lines and words, or as a more formal, squarely arranged hierarchical plot. It also features options like searching for specific text among idea entries, collaborative working and a drag-and-drop interface. Mind Vector is free to download, but it costs $10 to use unlimited nodes, remove in-app ads and unlock a few features.Popplet has an excellent and easy-to-use interface with lots of visual cues; its design and the maps it creates are a lot more playful than MindNode’s.Popplet has bright color schemes and an informal look, but it’s a powerful tool that can help you create large and complex mind maps. The app is also designed so that multiple users can collaborate on one map, making it useful for business groups, and it has a public sharing option so any users can view finished work. It’s a delight to use, and it’s just $5 on iOS.Mindly, which is a free iOS and Android download, is somewhere between MindNode and Popplet in terms of the look and feel of its mind maps and its interface. Mindly creates maps as an interconnected web of words and images, similar to other apps, but it places the words and images you enter in nodes into circular bubbles.These bubbles are organized in hierarchical rings around the central idea of each mind map you create. This helps keep the maps looking tidy and organized and also makes it easier to read through the mind maps later. You can, as with the other apps mentioned here, add images, or a note or an icon to each idea in your map, and this creates an even more visually striking result.Mindly is free to start, but this gives you a limited amount of nodes. To create complex maps, you must pay $7 to upgrade, but this also gives more options to export finished mind maps in different formats.The iconic graphical adventure and puzzle-solving game Myst is one of the best-selling games ever made, and it has been ported onto lots of different systems, including iOS. Now it has finally made its way onto Android devices as realMyst. It looks a bit dated, but it’s still amazing. RealMyst costs $7.
After a traumatic breakup, Julia Scinto, a fashion designer in Manhattan, found herself Googling sites far and wide, looking for any available resource to help her feel better.“I even considered hypnosis,” said Ms. Scinto, who designs women’s wear for Macy’s private label.Instead, she discovered Mend, an app and online community that serves as part personal trainer, part online refuge for the brokenhearted.On the Mend app, users are introduced to an animated avatar of the Mend founder, Ellen Huerta, and her reassuring voice offers guidance on how to move forward, with topics like “detoxing” from your ex; redefining your sense of self — even how to get a better night’s sleep.“It’s this charming and endearing voice of a friend,” Ms. Scinto said. “And there’s a line, ‘We never get tired of hearing about your breakup,’ and those words are like an oasis in the desert.”Geri Dugan, who works as a psychiatric nurse practitioner in Chicago, knows all too well the mixed emotions that come after a love affair ends. After being stunned by a relationship that didn’t work out, she said, she felt like an “emotional basket case.”Ms. Dugan found Mend through Ms. Huerta’s podcast “Love Is Like a Plant.” Now, for more than eight months, she has been applying Mend’s daily regime, which includes monitoring one’s self-care, journaling exercises, a Spotify playlist and a book club on Good Reads. She has also navigated through difficult days with support from Mend’s Facebook group.It “really helped normalize the experience,” Ms. Dugan said, adding, “I’m even recommending it to some of my patients going through things like divorce.”In her Santa Monica, Calif., office, just blocks from the Pacific, Ms. Huerta, 30, with a tumble of dark hair and giant blue eyes, admitted that she had always been drawn to matters of the heart. “Mend started very organically after I went through a breakup,” she said between sips of her hand-blended rooibos tea. “I had a lot of resources at my disposal — I had supportive friends and access to therapy — but I still was having such a hard time moving forward.”Ms. Huerta, identified by the name Elle on Mend, found online sites that offer breakup advice to be disappointing, with generic insights like “It just takes time” or wearisome directives like “Post a photo on social media of yourself with someone new.”She said she set out to build a better digital experience for the newly solo, where users could shake their feeling of helplessness and take action. As a former Google employee, she was familiar with the tech field and took her cues from fitness and brain-health apps. “We are taking those parts of our lives very seriously,” she said. “Yet we weren’t doing that with our love lives, which is at the core of who we are.”Mend started as a newsletter focused on recovering from heartbreak. Now the company is working with Silicon Beach’s highly selective business accelerator MuckerLab (whose portfolio includes tech companies like TaskRabbit and the Black Tux). MuckerLab invested seed money in Mend and assists Ms. Huerta with business development, including product design and marketing. Still less than a year old, the app has been downloaded in more than 100 countries, and many Mend users return for the supportive community, which spills over with tales of solidarity.“One of my personal missions is to erase the shame and taboo of heartbreak as something to just get over,” Ms. Huerta said. One way she addresses that is by drawing on her background in science. (She has a degree in geosciences from Wellesley, and her father is a geophysicist). She counsels the Mend community that it’s not just emotion that causes a wave of intense feelings, it’s also biology.“It’s different for everyone,” Ms. Huerta said, “but when you go through a separation with someone who you have been intimate with, your body can tell that there’s been a separation. You’re giving off hormones, and they are giving off hormones, over time you become addicted to that source of feel-good hormones.”She pointed to a 2016 study published in the Frontiers in Psychology journal, in which researchers found that romantic love stimulates the same area of the brain as addiction does, with symptoms like euphoria, craving and emotional and physical dependence. Love’s addictionlike qualities, the study states, have developed in humans to encourage procreation and, thus, our very existence.Although much of Ms. Huerta’s advice for Mend users is grounded either in science or in her own romantic mistrials, and she encourages a range of options, like meditation and mood-boosting teas, she firmly believes in the magic and mystery of love, which no data, chart or study can pinpoint. It is that belief that will inform a Mend app update scheduled to roll out in the spring.One sentiment remains: “It’s true what they say,” Ms. Huerta said. “Love really is the drug.”
The American economy finished 2016 on a soft note, the government reported on Friday, lowering the annual pace of growth to 1.6 percent, the lowest level in five years.That is less than half the rate President Trump vowed he could deliver during the campaign — a promise repeated on the White House website — and the economy’s underlying lack of momentum complicates the new administration’s plans.Indeed, it underscores why analysts say that Mr. Trump’s growth rate target of 4 percent is audacious at best, fanciful at worst, especially given the 2 percent or so growth that has prevailed since the current recovery began in 2009. Last year’s increase in output also represented a drop from the 2.6 percent rate recorded in 2015.What is more, although the Commerce Department report covered the last three full months of President Barack Obama’s second term, anemic economic activity could add to the revenue shortfall the federal government will most likely face from the personal and corporate tax cuts Mr. Trump has discussed.“It’s difficult to see how we would get to 4 percent growth given the current structure of the economy, especially demographics and productivity growth,” said Gus Faucher, deputy chief economist at PNC Financial Services in Pittsburgh. “That would be true no matter who is the president.”The retirement of the baby boomers will hold back any expansion of the labor force, he said, while productivity gains from technology are not expected to accelerate from the current level, as they did with consumer adoption of the internet or mobile phones in the 1990s.On the other hand, weak growth does strengthen arguments for a federal program to fortify the nation’s infrastructure — an effort Mr. Trump has advocated and which could provide an economic stimulus.And it is sure to be invoked to validate his fundamental campaign argument: that despite the decline in the official unemployment rate and the resurgent stock market, the economy has been underperforming in a way that demands new policies.Still, there are some familiar economic headwinds the new administration will have to confront. The strengthening dollar could further hurt American exports and worsen the trade balance, a major factor in the weakness in the fourth quarter.At the same time, the Federal Reserve has signaled that it is ready to raise interest rates a few times this year, and a faster rate of expansion would only accelerate the Fed’s plan to tighten monetary policy in head off inflation.For the fourth quarter alone, the economy expanded at an annual rate of 1.9 percent. Experts had expected growth of just over 2 percent. The Commerce Department will make two revisions of the figure over the next two months that could change the number.The data was complicated this time by the aftereffects of a surge in soybean exports in the third quarter, which lifted growth in the period to the highest level in three years.Since the surprise victory of Mr. Trump in November, many economists have been raising their projected growth rates for the latter half of 2017 and for 2018.That is not necessarily because they feel Mr. Trump policies will prove beneficial in the long run. Instead, it is because two of his proposals — tax cuts and infrastructure investments — could bolster the economy in the short term.Mr. Faucher lifted his growth forecast to 2.4 percent in 2017 and 2.7 percent in 2018. Previously, he expected output to expand by 2.25 percent in each year.“Tax cuts and infrastructure spending represent a much more expansionary fiscal policy than we’ve had in some time,” he said.But Mr. Faucher cautioned that increasing the federal deficit, which stood at $587 billion in 2016, by hundreds of billions more in the coming years could increase interest rates, which were already moving higher.The rates, including mortgage rates for home buyers, were already up more than half a percentage point since the election, on expectations of more borrowing and faster growth.But in economics, as in life, everything cuts both ways. The rise in interest rates has also strengthened the dollar relative to other currencies.While that has been good news for American tourists, a stronger currency is bad news for American exporters, especially manufacturers, because it makes imports cheaper while lifting the price of American-made products overseas.“Mr. Trump can’t control the dollar, and that will be a big factor this year,” Mr. Faucher said. “Trade is likely to be a drag on growth.”
ULAN BATOR, Mongolia — Thousands of Mongolians stood in frigid weather on Saturday for the second time this winter to demand that the government strengthen its response to the smog that routinely blankets Ulan Bator, the capital.About 7,000 people, many in air masks and gas masks under thick winter hats, braved temperatures below minus 4 Fahrenheit. Standing in the city’s central Sukhbataar Square, they held black balloons and protest signs.Ulan Bator is one of the world’s coldest capitals, and more than half of the city’s 1.3 million residents rely on burning raw coal, plastic, rubber tires and other materials to stay warm and cook meals in their homes. In poor neighborhoods that ring the city, known as ger districts, herders and others live in traditional round tents without heating, leaving them to burn polluting fuels.Unicef, said last year that Ulan Bator was one of the world’s 10 most polluted cities and that the lungs of children in the most polluted areas did not function as well as those of children in rural areas, putting them at risk of chronic respiratory illnesses.Pollution readings in one ger district on Friday were nearly 30 times as high as levels considered safe by the World Health Organization.Sanchir Jargalsaikhan, a political scientist in Ulan Bator, said climate change had intensified summer droughts and winter cold spells, making it harder to maintain livestock and forcing more herders into overcrowded ger districts. He described the government’s policies to address the problem as “pretty piecemeal.”Mongolia’s environment and tourism minister said last month that the government had spent more than $37 million and international donors had spent $47 million from 2011 to 2015 on measures to reduce air pollution.Many protesters on Saturday said they could not afford to do more on their own. Dorjin Dolgor, a retiree, said she lived on an annual pension of $112 and burned coal in her stove to stay warm.“To get heaters for my three-room house would cost me one year of my pension, and maybe not even be enough,” she said.
WASHINGTON — A far larger number of people were affected by President Trump’s executive order on refugees than he initially said, Department of Homeland Security officials acknowledged on Tuesday.Mr. Trump posted on Twitter that only 109 people were detained or denied entry into the United States after his order, but during a news briefing at the Customs and Border Protection agency’s headquarters on Tuesday, officials said that 721 people had been denied boarding for the United States after it began enforcing the travel ban. The agency said it processed waivers for 1,060 green card holders, and an additional 75 waivers granted to immigrant visa and nonimmigrant visa holders.Homeland security officials said the White House was referring to the number of people who were either detained or denied boarding during the initial hours after the travel ban was signed, a total based on preliminary calculations.The officials also disclosed that 872 refugees were granted waivers to enter the country, despite Mr. Trump’s executive order freezing resettlement. Customs officials said the waivers were granted because the refugees were “ready to travel.” They had already been vetted by the government, they said.John F. Kelly, the secretary of homeland security, said that Mr. Trump’s order did not amount to a “travel ban,” adding, “This is a temporary pause that allows us to better review the existing refugee and visa vetting system.”But Mr. Kelly also confirmed that, while he saw versions of the executive order, he did not see the final order before it was signed by the president.He said that executives at homeland security were involved in writing the order, but added that the knowledge of it and its distribution was limited. Mr. Kelly said that he had known that the order was coming for some time, but that he was not involved personally in the process to the degree to which he “corrected grammar or say we needed to change things.”The New York Times reported on Monday that Mr. Kelly was on a conference call about the order when it was signed on Friday and was given his first full briefing about its contents later that day.Mr. Trump’s order initially created chaos and confusion at airports around the world. Passengers, many of them with green cards that allow them to live and work in the United States, were barred from flights into the country. A number of people with visas were suddenly unsure if they would be allowed into the United States, and many were stopped when they arrived.Neither homeland security nor related agencies posted any information on their websites or social media accounts informing the public about Mr. Trump’s travel ban until Sunday.Immigration proponents and lawyers representing people stuck at airports because of the ban say they were unable to speak to anyone at Customs and Border Protection or at the headquarters of homeland security.The first briefing on the order by homeland security officials for the news media was at 9 p.m. on Saturday, long after news reports raised questions about the effects of the order and after thousands of people had lined the sidewalks and terminals of international airports to protest the ban.During the Tuesday briefing, the acting commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, Kevin K. McAleenan, rejected criticism of the agency’s efforts to enforce the order.“We worked quickly to implement, and I think the process has really smoothed out,” he said.Mr. Kelly also insisted that there was no chaos. “Our officers who are at the counters, so to speak, the only chaos they saw was what was taking place in other parts of the airport,” he said.Despite the ban on travelers from seven majority-Muslim countries, Mr. Kelly insisted the country remained open to visitors despite their religious beliefs.“The vast majority of the 1.7 billion Muslims that live on this planet, the vast majority of them have, all other things being equal, have access to the United States,” Mr. Kelly said.
It is an ambitious 8,000-square foot exhibition designed to explore 400 years of New York City history, and now it has brought the Museum of the City of New York the largest donation in its 94-year existence. The gift, $10 million from the Thompson Family Foundation, equals the amount of money the museum spent on the exhibition, “New York at Its Core,” which opened in November after five years of preparation.The money will support the museum’s endowment for educational activities related to the exhibition, which include class trips, music, dance and art workshops, and lesson plans that describe the city’s past, present and future.“It’s a transformative gift,” said the museum’s director, Whitney Donhauser. “It validates the work the staff has done for years to create strong educational programming around our exhibits.”“New York at its Core,” which occupies all three of the museum’s first-floor galleries and is the first permanent exhibit there, traces New York’s growth from a modest 17th-century Dutch settlement called New Amsterdam to one of the most vibrant and populous cities in the world and a center of commerce and culture.The show is organized around the themes of money, density, diversity and creativity, and features information on figures like J.P. Morgan, Fiorello H. La Guardia and Jane Jacobs. Among the hundreds of artifacts in the exhibition are part of a wooden water pipe laid by Aaron Burr’s bogus utility, the Tiffany silver shovel used to break ground for the subway, the keys to Louis Armstrong’s home in Queens and a Lenape Indian war club.
MANDALAY, Myanmar — The police in Myanmar announced on Wednesday that they had arrested four people in the killing of a prominent Muslim human rights lawyer who was an adviser to the country’s leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi — a death that raised new concerns about Myanmar’s rocky transition to democracy.The lawyer, U Ko Ni, was shot in the head leaving Yangon International Airport on Sunday while holding his grandchild. The brazen killing comes as Myanmar struggles to emerge from decades of military dictatorship and grapples with sectarian violence between Buddhists and Muslims.The police said they had arrested U Myint Swe, whom they accuse of masterminding the killing, near the Thai border. U Kyi Lin, who is accused of being the gunman, was arrested shortly after the shooting. They did not identify the other two in custody.Officials did not disclose a motive, but the president’s office said on Monday that the killing was carried out to “undermine the country’s stability.”Mr. Ko Ni, a member of the governing National League for Democracy, was killed as he returned from Indonesia with other government officials and civic leaders to discuss democracy and conflict resolution.Myanmar has been confronted by rising sectarian violence between the majority Buddhist population and minority Muslims, with Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace Prize laureate, facing criticism for not taking stronger action to stop attacks against the Rohingya, a Muslim minority, in Rakhine State.The funeral on Monday for Mr. Ko Ni, 65, who was involved in the interfaith peace movement, drew thousands of mourners, though Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi did not attend.While Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s party won a strong victory in democratic elections in 2015, the military still holds considerable power and has been accused of carrying out a brutal counterinsurgency campaign against the Rohingya. The crackdown has helped drive a refugee crisis among the Rohingya, with many fleeing across the border to Bangladesh.
YANGON, Myanmar — A day after a prominent human rights lawyer was fatally shot in Yangon, Myanmar’s government said on Monday that the gunman had been trying to undermine stability in the country.The lawyer, U Ko Ni, 65, an adviser to Myanmar’s leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, was shot in the head at close range as he was leaving Yangon International Airport on Sunday. The police arrested a suspect, identified as U Kyi Lin, and seized two handguns.“According to an earlier interrogation, the motivation of the incident is to undermine the country’s stability,” the president’s office said in a statement.Mr. Ko Ni, a Muslim and a member of the governing National League for Democracy, was returning from Indonesia with other government officials and civic leaders who had traveled there to discuss democracy and conflict resolution. He wrote six books on human rights issues and democratic elections, and he was actively involved in the interfaith peace movement.Myanmar has experienced sectarian violence between the majority Buddhist population and minority Muslims. Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace Prize laureate, has faced international criticism for military operations against the Rohingya, a Muslim minority, in Rakhine State that has led to a humanitarian crisis.The president’s office said it would increase security around the country, and it urged the public to remain “aware about instigation over religion and racial issues.”U Thein Than Oo, a prominent lawyer and a colleague of Mr. Ko Ni’s, said in a telephone interview, “This time I agree with the government’s statement” about the killing.“The political assassination is absolutely threatening stability here,” he said.“The motive of killing the lawyer at a public area, the Yangon airport,” he added, “would be targeting firstly the N.L.D. leadership, secondly political and civic leaders who want to amend the military drafted constitution, and thirdly the peace process.”At Mr. Ko Ni’s funeral on Monday afternoon, tens of thousands paid their respects to him as a hero of the nation.A leader of the National League for Democracy, U Tin Oo, and the mayor of Yangon, U Maung Maung Soe, attended the funeral; Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi did not.“It was so crowded,” said Daw Wai Wai Nu, a Rohingya Muslim activist who was invited to the White House by President Barack Obama in 2015. “I couldn’t even get into the area where his body was kept at the cemetery hall,” she said.Myanmar’s armed forces announced on Monday that they would cooperate with all security units to find any other suspects involved in the shooting. Maj. Gen. Myo Zaw Thein, the commander of the Yangon region, visited the bodies of Mr. Ko Ni and a taxi driver who was also killed in the shooting.The military is still the most powerful institution in Myanmar, even though Ms. Aung San Suu Kyi’s party handily won in a national election in 2015.Human rights advocates have called for an independent investigation into Mr. Ko Ni’s killing.
HOUSTON — The N.F.L. seems to have built a virtual wall around the New England Patriots when it comes to public discussion of two lightning-rod topics for the team: President Trump (a friend of the team’s owner, coach and star quarterback) and Roger Goodell, the league’s commissioner, who punished the team after a cheating investigation.At a prime-time event on Monday called Opening Night, in which reporters received access to the participants in Sunday’s Super Bowl, hundreds of reporters peppered members of the teams with all manner of questions, including what they thought of Trump and Goodell.But when the N.F.L. posted transcripts of the interviews with members of the Patriots and the Atlanta Falcons, there were almost no references to Trump or Goodell.Reporters were certainly curious, given the nation’s political climate and the controversy over the suspension of the Patriots’ quarterback, Tom Brady, for four games as a result of the “Deflategate” scandal, in which the league said he conspired to manipulate footballs to his advantage in a conference championship game two years ago.Brady, Coach Bill Belichick and the Patriots’ owner, Robert K. Kraft, also happen to be friends of the president, whose actions, including his temporary ban on refugees and restrictions on immigrants from some Muslim-majority countries, have been highly controversial.Of the transcripts provided for the interviews with 26 of the Patriots players and coaches and 28 of the Falcons players and coaches, the name “Trump” does not appear in any of them, and the word “president” appears only in reference to team presidents, despite reporters’ having asked about them. The name “Goodell” appears just once.The league had little to fear. As he often does when confronted with hot-button issues, Belichick said that he wanted to talk only about football. Brady was asked about Trump three times and Goodell four times, and he sidestepped each question.“I’m not talking politics at all,” Brady said after being asked about his relationship with the president. When asked why, he added, “I just want to focus on the positive aspects of this game and my teammates and the reasons why we’re here.”Brady was also asked about the possibility of receiving the Vince Lombardi Trophy from Goodell if the Patriots were to win the Super Bowl on Sunday. “I’m not worried about the postgame or anything like that, I just want to go out there and do great during the game.”Belichick, who is often gruff with reporters, batted away questions about the president.“I’m focused on our team and for getting ready for Sunday,” he said, lips clenched.A spokesman for the N.F.L., Brian McCarthy, said the transcripts of the one-hour media sessions, which are typically compiled by public-relations staff from the teams involved, were not intended to be a complete account of the interviews. Rather, the league tries to provide the highlights as quickly as possible to the 2,000 or so members of the media credentialed for the Super Bowl.“There’s no editing of these quotes by the person who is transcribing nor by the league office,” McCarthy said.The league has sanitized its Super Bowl transcripts in past years, too. Two years ago, for instance, the league’s transcript of interviews with the Seattle Seahawks’ outspoken cornerback, Richard Sherman, did not include his answers to questions about Kraft or about Goodell and his handling of the domestic violence case involving the Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice.The fact that the N.F.L. does not even acknowledge these questions and their anodyne answers underscores the lengths it will go not to offend its fans.Its striving for a neutral stance on thorny political questions is in contrast to the National Basketball Association, which in recent years has willingly taken stances against perceived attacks on L.G.B.T. rights and Trump’s temporary ban on refugees, among others.Prominent N.B.A. stars including LeBron James and Carmelo Anthony have also shared their opinions on topics of the day.Football players, of course, have plenty of opinions. But in the media swirl of the Super Bowl, only a handful of players will venture to share them, and many of them are shared only when a reporter happens to include them in an article. That’s because the league only transcribes interviews with the 10 players or coaches that each team places at designated podiums and a handful of players who mill around.Martellus Bennett, the Patriots’ loquacious and talented tight end, had perhaps the most pointed response of the evening when asked whether he would visit the White House if the Patriots won the Super Bowl.“Most likely not,” he told a reporter from The Detroit Free Press. “Because I don’t support the person in it.”Falcons wide receiver Mohamed Sanu, a Muslim, also did not duck questions about the travel ban, something the N.F.L. did include in its transcripts.“It’s a very tough situation and I just pray that us as a country and a world can be united as one,” he said. “It’s really hard for me to talk about this right now. It would take a lot of time so I just want to focus on the game and focus on football.”The abiding culture in the N.F.L., and in football more broadly, dictates that players look inward to the team and do as little as possible to stand out off the field. That is one reason the public reaction was so heated when Colin Kaepernick, the San Francisco 49ers quarterback, chose not to stand for the national anthem to highlight the issue of police brutality.Kaepernick and the handful of players who acted in sympathy with him, though, are rare. Falcons outside linebacker De’Vondre Campbell summed up that more prevalent position when asked by a reporter on Monday about how he remained focused “with everything going on in our society today.”“Just really stay out of the social media world because you kind of get sucked into it,” he said, according to a transcript provided by the N.F.L. “You can kind of start believing in some of the stuff you see. So I stay in my own little world and I do what I need to do and just try to stay out of everybody else’s business, to be honest.”
LOS ANGELES — With N.H.L. stars pining for the opportunity to compete at the 2018 Winter Olympics, Commissioner Gary Bettman gave no indication that the league would allow its players to go.Addressing reporters before the N.H.L. All-Star skills competition on Saturday, Bettman acknowledged that the Olympics had mostly been ignored at the Board of Governors’ meeting earlier in the day.“The issue of the Olympics got about 10 seconds of discussion,” Bettman said. “It wasn’t even on the agenda.”N.H.L. players have participated in every Olympics since 1998, and most who were here for the All-Star Game expressed interest in attending the 2018 Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea.“I think everybody wants to go,” said Alex Ovechkin, the Washington Capitals’ Russian star. “We’re very excited about it. It’s going to be fun.”As he did before playing in the 2014 Olympics in Sochi, Russia, Ovechkin has said he intends to compete regardless of whether N.H.L. players are released for the tournament. That interest in representing one’s country was also voiced by a fellow Russian.“It’s really big for Russian players,” the St. Louis Blues star Vladimir Tarasenko said. “I hope they make the right decision. It would be great if they decide to let us go.”He added that while growing up, he had dreamed more about winning an Olympic gold medal than a Stanley Cup.N.H.L. All-Stars almost universally voiced interest in Olympic participation, with one notable exception.“I’m indifferent about it,” said Los Angeles Kings defenseman Drew Doughty, who won gold medals with Canada in 2010 and 2014. “It’s cool, but at the same time, there’s nothing worse than having to travel overseas in the middle of the season.”N.H.L. owners and officials do not like the idea of shutting down the league for a few weeks, either. Olympic negotiations have been mostly stalled since representatives of the N.H.L., the International Ice Hockey Federation, Hockey Canada and U.S.A. Hockey met in New York in November. A main sticking point is travel and insurance costs, which will no longer be covered by the International Olympic Committee.Bettman said after the November meeting that any decision on the Olympics would need to be made by January.But on Saturday, he no longer appeared bound by that deadline. He also did not seem especially motivated to continue negotiating.“We’re not the ones who are setting deadlines,” he said.Negotiations for the Sochi Games similarly stalled four years ago. An agreement was ultimately announced on July 19, 2013, less than seven months before the opening ceremony.
LOS ANGELES — Participation in the N.H.L. All-Star weekend is considered an honor for any player. But for the goalies involved in this year’s iteration on Sunday at Staples Center, there was an unavoidable sense of foreboding.Last year, to open the tournament up to even more scoring, the event adopted a three-on-three format, which is also used in overtime of regular-season games.“Isn’t it scary? For five minutes it’s fine, but for 10, 20 minutes, it can be a little hectic,” Arizona Coyotes goaltender Mike Smith said. “It will be a lot of fun. I’m going to enjoy it.”Stopping the N.H.L.’s best players was challenging for the eight goalies invited to the Staples Center, where the Metropolitan Division won the tournament by defeating the Pacific Division, 4-3, in the final. But with an equipment change on the horizon and potentially more alterations in the offing, goaltenders may have an even greater transition to make in the coming months.Goaltenders have historically been sacrificial lambs in the All-Star competition. On Sunday, that degree of difficulty was compounded early for Chicago Blackhawks goaltender Corey Crawford, who was jeered by the numerous Los Angeles Kings fans in attendance after allowing two goals in 42 seconds.“One guy was still yelling at me when I was on the bench,” said Crawford, who allowed five goals on 11 shots as the Central Division was eliminated with a 10-3 loss to the Pacific Division. “I thought that was pretty funny. He was still giving it to me when I was off the ice.”Crawford’s replacement, Devan Dubnyk of the Minnesota Wild, fared no better, also allowing five goals on 11 shots.“I made a few saves at the start of this game and figured that was enough,” Dubnyk joked. “Stopped a couple of breakaways and made a paddle save and I was like, ‘That’s good for the night.’”This year’s All-Star goaltenders typically chuckled when asked about their effectiveness in the midseason exhibition. But a far more contentious topic is the changes being made to their equipment. Come Feb. 4, N.H.L. goaltenders will be required to wear a streamlined version of their pants featuring a more contoured design and snug fit.The change was first proposed at last season’s general managers’ meetings in the hope that the new design could help increase scoring. Across the N.H.L., goals have decreased year over year since 2013-14, the first full N.H.L. season since a work stoppage resulted in a shortened 2012-13 campaign.Reviews of the new pants among All-Star goalies were decidedly mixed.Carey Price of the Montreal Canadiens said: “They’re maybe slightly more streamlined a little bit. Not a huge difference.”Not all goalies at the All-Star tournament shared Price’s tempered response.“I tried them once,” Smith said. “That’s as far as I got. To have an equipment change midseason, I think, is crazy, especially in the goaltending position. It’s like five, 10 years ago, when it was the True Religion jeans, really baggy. It’s like going from those to skinny jeans. You can’t bend over. I tried it one time, and it felt like it was really restrictive.”Changes to goaltending equipment may not end with pants. The initial general managers’ proposal outlined similar changes to chest protectors.“For me, I’m more worried about the protection, especially if you change the chest protector,” said Sergei Bobrovsky of the Columbus Blue Jackets. “Personally, what’s the point to change? This season we have bigger scores. It’s lots of goals.”Indeed, entering the All-Star break, N.H.L. teams were scoring at their highest pace since the 2012 work stoppage. Goaltenders offered a variety of explanations for the surge.One popular theory was the rookie stars Auston Matthews of the Toronto Maple Leafs and Patrik Laine of the Winnipeg Jets, who are each in the top 10 in goals and were All-Stars here. There is also the contribution of Connor McDavid, another first-time All-Star, who leads the league in points after being limited by injury to 45 games last season.Asked for his theory behind the scoring increase, the Bruins’ Tuukka Rask barely hesitated.“It’s the schedule,” he said, referring to a condensed schedule necessitated by the World Cup of Hockey in September.“We played every other night for 100 days, almost,” he added. “You’re going to have days where you’re not mentally there. When those things happen, mistakes happen.”Regardless of the reasons behind the scoring increase this season, some goaltenders expressed resentment toward the N.H.L.’s inclination to alter goalie equipment when confronted with a lack of goals.Dubnyk suggested that it was the quality of the ice from arena to arena that required attention, not goalie equipment.“You’ve got a building with 20,000 people, and it’s going to get hot, and if it’s humid outside, there are all these factors,” he said. “Some teams are extremely skilled teams, and sometimes, they just have to flip the puck around because the ice isn’t good. I’d rather they work on the ice than my pants and chest pad.”The ice quality at Barclays Center, the Islanders’ home arena, came under fire earlier this season, and a game between the Detroit Red Wings and the Carolina Hurricanes on Dec. 19 was postponed because of a cooling malfunction at PNC Arena in Raleigh, N.C.In the meantime, goalies have no choice but to come to terms with their shrinking pants.“I don’t agree with changing equipment or changing equipment rules in the middle of the season,” Dubnyk said. “I don’t think any one of us agree with it, whether they say it or not.”But by All-Star weekend, he had come to terms with his new pants.“I’ve had a chance to wear them,” Dubnyk said. “They’re going to be fine. Come Feb. 4, I’ll put them on, and I won’t talk about them anymore.”
Top-level college football players at private universities are employees entitled to request improved working conditions and even to seek pay for their efforts, according to a memorandum issued by the general counsel for the National Labor Relations Board and made public on Tuesday.The determination, which was included in a letter from the counsel, Robert F. Griffin, and addressed to regional board directors nationwide, found that scholarship football players at private colleges like Northwestern, Stanford and Notre Dame have employment rights and are protected by law should they seek to bargain for a safer work environment, or request pay.The memo was revealed more than a year and a half after the N.L.R.B. in Washington declined to exert jurisdiction over the Northwestern football team’s union petition, which effectively denied players the right to unionize and collectively bargain. Griffin’s memo does not affect that ruling. It does not give players at private universities the right to collectively bargain, nor does it carry the force of law like a full board finding, muting its impact. Supporters of athletes’ rights called it a clear signal that the question of whether college football players are employees remains unsettled.“This is an important legal victory for college athletes,” said John Adam, a lawyer who represented the Northwestern players. “They are employees and have the rights and protections of federal law. That’s never happened.”Last fall, Northwestern faced  an unfair labor practice charge after a California lawyer contended the football team’s rule book encroached on players’ rights. Northwestern resolved the dispute by removing restrictions on players’ use of social media and their statements to the news media. One potential outcome of Tuesday’s memo, Adam said, was that other private schools would be vulnerable to similar charges and might have to amend their team rules.Donald Remy, the N.C.A.A.’s chief legal officer, said: “The general counsel’s memo and personal opinion do not reflect a binding position of the N.L.R.B. As we have stated before and he was obligated to acknowledge, the N.L.R.B. previously decided that it would not exercise jurisdiction regarding the employment context of student-athletes and their schools. The general counsel’s memo does not change that decision and does not allow student-athletes to unionize.”Any legal machinations, however, could soon be moot. The term of Griffin, who was appointed by President Barack Obama, ends in November, and President Trump will appoint the N.L.R.B.’s next general counsel. The five-member board will also flip from a Democratic majority to Republican under the new administration, and the remade body is expected to be less sympathetic to organized labor.Wilma B. Liebman, a former chairwoman of the N.L.R.B., said a new board could seek to clarify the employment status of college football players through a ruling on a case involving graduate teaching assistants.“A new board has the potential to look at this issue very differently,” she said. “And that would limit any long-term implications.”
Natalie Portman approaches clothes the way she does her roles: She is impeccably prepared for the occasion, exhibiting enough of her own taste to be distinctive and laudable, yet like a true movie star, she is still very much “Natalie Portman” — meaning that, on the red carpet, she enjoys fashion but is no tragic slave to the pomp and circumstance.For a pro like Ms. Portman, a pregnancy during her current awards run — she is nominated for her take on Jacqueline Kennedy in “Jackie,” for which she has already won a Critics’ Choice Award — has made hardly a bump (couldn’t resist). With Kate Young, her longtime stylist, her choices have been cleverly tailored for fit and flow.“Even pregnant, she’s a tiny person,” Ms. Young said, adding that, when figuring out proportions, it helps that she and her client are the same height and size. “Sample sizes are regularly huge on her, so now it’s actually often easier to wear runway pieces. It’s not all custom.”To wit, the dark A-line Dior gown she wore at the Palm Springs International Film Festival this month — she is a face of the brand — was reserved directly from the catwalk. And a navy Erdem gown with jeweled accents worn at the Huading Global Film Awards in Los Angeles in December, was also a runway score.Though elegance underlines all of her choices, Ms. Portman has a romantic streak. Don’t expect too much froufrou, though. “She’s doesn’t like things that are fussy,” Ms. Young said. Rather the romance is expressed “in the color palette and fabric — a soft drape as opposed to a fitted thing,” the stylist said.The sun-embellished white Dior gown she wore at AFI Fest in November and the black and white lace Valentino gown with loose cape sleeves worn at the “Jackie” premiere at the Venice Film Festival each had a Juliet quality. The same goes for a celery green Prada gown with sequin flowers in which the actress appeared at the Toronto International Film Festival in September. It was gently tied at the waist.The cape-sleeved Alexander McQueen cocktail dress, red and black with velvet trim, that she chose for the Critics’ Choice Awards, was also a visual feat. “The way the cape created the shape of the shoulder was flattering,” Ms. Young said. “When you’re pregnant, people often think a tent would be the best shape when often it’s not. Looking chic when you’re pregnant is about defining the places that are still you — on Natalie that would be her arms, neck, bust and legs, which are still skinny.”Chances are you will find Ms. Portman in a Rodarte creation at some point during the season. Such was the case at the Gotham Independent Film Awards when she slipped into an offbeat white lace cocktail dress with a sequin floral motif. That moment of weakness can be forgiven, though. The long-sleeved chartreuse Prada gown she wore at the Golden Globes, and the Diors she chose for a couple of “Planetarium” premieres — an embellished ivory coatdress in Toronto and a sweeping one-shoulder white gown at the Venice Film Festival — were lessons in chic.Ms. Portman sometimes wears sparer designs, including ones by the Row: She wore a vertical-stripe ivory gown for the Israel Film Festival Anniversary Gala last fall and a square-necked clingy black dress for the Hollywood Film Awards.“I love to wear the Row in my personal life, and so do a lot of my clients, but often for the red carpet, it’s too understated,” Ms. Young said. “Actresses aren’t going to a premiere for fun. They’re going to promote a movie, so wearing a simple black dress is generally a little too quiet for my aim.”With her pregnancy, though, Ms. Portman amplifies every look, Ms. Young pointed out. “She doesn’t need much to stand out.”
UNIONDALE, N.Y. — Seeking to meet growing electric demand in the Hamptons with renewable energy, the Long Island Power Authority approved the nation’s largest offshore wind farm on Wednesday, set for the waters between the eastern tip of Long Island and Martha’s Vineyard.The farm, with as many as 15 turbines capable of powering 50,000 average homes over all, is the first of several planned by the developer, Deepwater Wind. It will be in a 256-square-mile parcel, with room for as many as 200 turbines, that the company is leasing from the federal government.“It is the largest project to date, but it will not be the last project,” the power authority’s chief executive, Thomas Falcone, said before the vote as a crowd of supporters erupted in whoops and applause.Wind power has struggled to take off in the United States, but the Long Island project signals that the long-awaited promise of a new, lower-carbon source of electricity is poised to become part of the national energy mix.It has been given new life by New York’s push to meet Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo’s goal of drawing 50 percent of the state’s power from renewable sources by 2030. That goal includes 2.4 gigawatts of offshore wind, enough to power 1.25 million homes. It is the largest commitment to offshore wind in the country and is part of the state’s way of showing the nascent industry it is serious about developing the resource.“This project will not only provide a new, reliable source of clean energy but will also create high-paying jobs, continue our efforts to combat climate change and help preserve our environment,” Mr. Cuomo said Wednesday in a statement, two weeks after he publicly called for the power authority to approve the proposal.The project’s cost was projected at $1 billion but is now expected to be $740 million. Deepwater plans to finance the project with loans and equity investments, according to Jeffrey Grybowski, the company’s chief executive. Mr. Grybowski expressed confidence that the project would qualify for an investment tax credit, set to phase out at the end of 2019, that is worth 24 percent of the development’s cost. Whether it does, however, could be open to interpretation by the Treasury.The turbines, each roughly 600 feet tall, would be connected to a substation in East Hampton by a 50-mile undersea cable. The town has a goal of its own: meeting all of its electric demand with renewable energy by 2020.Other offshore wind projects, notably one off Cape Cod, have encountered opposition over their effect on ocean views. But Deepwater has said the turbines supplying East Hampton would not be visible from Montauk, on the tip of Long Island, and would barely be visible from Martha’s Vineyard, 15 miles away.The approval comes six weeks after the nation’s only other functioning offshore wind-energy farm — a Deepwater project in Rhode Island state waters off Block Island — began serving customers on the grid.Big multinational developers like Statoil and Dong Energy are also investing in the business, snapping up leases for ocean parcels with the aim of competing for utility contracts in Maryland, Massachusetts and New York. The New York State Energy Research and Development Authority is putting together an offshore wind master plan to guide development, including a swath south of the Rockaways.The projects have all faced some opposition, some of it from commercial fisheries concerned that the turbines, attached to the seafloor, will disrupt their businesses and consumers worried about higher electricity prices. The power authority, which plans to buy all of the Long Island farm’s output over 20 years, says the cost is about the same as its other renewable energy projects, about 16 cents a kilowatt-hour. Its average electricity price is 7.5 cents a kilowatt-hour, so the project is expected to add $1.19 a month to the average customer bill.No opposition was in evidence as the authority voted at a public meeting at its headquarters here. Several supporters praised the proposal as a way to move the electric system off fossil fuels to slow climate change, and as an engine for jobs. But much remains to be done before those benefits materialize.First, the developers must study and map the ocean floor to determine precisely where and how to anchor each turbine, and then go through the federal and state permitting processes. The farm is to begin transmitting power by the end of 2022, so Deepwater would need to start construction no later than 2020.“We think that thousands of megawatts are going to be built off the coast of the United States in the coming decades,” Mr. Grybowski said. “It’s an enormous clean energy resource. It’s easy for us to tap into it, but we need projects to get from essentially one project to these thousands of megawatts.”
JERUSALEM — Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, who had been closemouthed on the contentious question of moving the United States Embassy to Jerusalem, noted on Sunday that the embassy “needs to be here.”But he pointedly did not demand that President Trump immediately follow through on his campaign promise to move the embassy — made by many presidential nominees since the 1970s but never fulfilled.“Jerusalem is the capital of Israel, and it is proper that not only should the American Embassy be here, but all embassies should come here,” Mr. Netanyahu said before his weekly cabinet meeting. “And I believe that over time, most of them will indeed come here, to Jerusalem.”The issue seemed to be put off when Mr. Trump told Fox News in an interview last week that it was “too early” to discuss any move. “I don’t want to talk about it yet,” he told the network.The announcement of such a move had seemed imminent after Mr. Trump’s inauguration on Jan. 20. Officials told the news media to expect news on the embassy, and Mr. Trump, asked about such a relocation on the eve of his swearing-in, said, “You know I’m not a person who breaks promises.”But Palestinian and other Arab leaders spoke forcefully against the move, saying it would amount to a formal recognition of the Israeli annexation of East Jerusalem, after its capture from Jordan in the Arab-Israeli War of 1967. Palestinian leaders said they would revoke recognition for Israel, and leaders on both sides worried about violence, here and elsewhere in the Muslim world.Israel considers the entire city its capital, and the Palestinians demand that East Jerusalem be the capital of a future state. No embassies are in the city. Most, including the United States Embassy, are in the commercial hub of Tel Aviv, and most world leaders say they will make no moves unless the two sides negotiate a deal on the status of Jerusalem.While many Israelis say they would like to see the embassy here, few count it high among their priorities, and many say it is not worth risking violence now. Mr. Netanyahu has said almost nothing on the issue since Mr. Trump made his promise during the campaign to move the embassy.“Great,” Mr. Netanyahu said last month on a trip to Azerbaijan. He went no further.Marc Zell, a chairman of Republicans Overseas Israel, which worked to turn out the vote for Mr. Trump among Americans living in Israel, said he sensed a change in the new administration’s stance after Mr. Trump and Mr. Netanyahu spoke on the telephone a week ago. Mr. Zell said he had since spoken to American and Israeli officials, who he said told him that Israel did not see the embassy move as something that needed to happen immediately.“It will be resolved,” Mr. Zell said. “As soon as they get the green light, the embassy will be moved,” he said, referring to the Trump administration.Mr. Zell said it was of greater importance that the administration made no comment when Mr. Netanyahu last week announced 2,500 new housing units in settlements in the West Bank and another 566 in East Jerusalem. The question of Israeli building in areas beyond the lines of the 1967 war was one of the most contentious in Mr. Netanyahu’s difficult relationship with President Barack Obama.“That is a revolutionary change in U.S. policy,” Mr. Zell said.Mr. Netanyahu is expected to visit Mr. Trump in Washington next month.
ATLANTA — Halfway through his first Atlantic Coast Conference season, Coach Josh Pastner has exceeded expectations at Georgia Tech.It’s been a surprising start for the 39-year-old Pastner. The Yellow Jackets have wins against two top-10 teams — North Carolina and Florida State. Last week, they upset the Seminoles by a wide margin and earned a last-second victory over Notre Dame, a Top 25 team.Pastner has made this happen with a roster he regularly cites as “the least experienced in the nation.” He mentions in every interview that Georgia Tech is early into “a four- to five-year major rebuild” and that it begins every game with “zero margin for error.”Even so, nobody figured the Jackets would be 13-8 over all, much less 5-4 in the A.C.C., after they needed overtime to beat Division II Shorter in an exhibition in early November.Georgia Tech was picked in the preseason to finish at the bottom of the league.“I know I’ve said that a lot, but it’s the truth,” Pastner said. “We have severe limitations. If we have an off night by certain guys, it’s just going to be hard for us.”Everything hinges on the play of the junior center Ben Lammers, one of the league’s most improved players. Lammers ranks second in the nation in blocked shots, second in the A.C.C. in rebounding and fifth in league field-goal percentage. He averages 14.7 points.The freshman guard Josh Okogie leads the team in scoring. The senior forward Quinton Stephens and the junior Tadric Jackson both average in double figures, and Pastner is getting adequate assists and rebounding from guards Josh Heath and Corey Heyward.Heading into Wednesday’s game at Clemson, Pastner has Georgia Tech playing with high energy. He’s pleased that its defense has the best field-goal percentage in conference play, but it all gets back to effort.“I’m hard on guys who don’t have high motors and I’m not lowering my standard,” he said. “They have to meet me. It’s their responsibility.”Expectations were low when Pastner arrived from Memphis nine months ago because the Jackets hadn’t been to the N.C.A.A. tournament since 2010. Brian Gregory, Pastner’s predecessor, finished 11th three times, ninth once and 13th another year in the A.C.C.Even so, Pastner maintains that Gregory held the program’s character to a high standard despite its struggles on the court.“We had great kids, and that’s a credit to Coach Gregory,” Pastner said. “He did a great job with the culture. The problem was the program needed a little shot or infusion of energy to the fan base and to give a little rah-rah here and there.”At Memphis, Pastner was an assistant under John Calipari for one year before Calipari left for Kentucky. At 31 years old when he took charge, Pastner missed the N.C.A.A. tournament in his first season, but he led the Tigers into March Madness four straight years before missing out in his last two seasons.His message had worn thin, and so had Pastner’s confidence.“When we lost a game, I wouldn’t go out, for seven years, because I felt like I’d let the entire city down,” he said. “And when you win, it was a relief. I could finally go outside my house and get dinner. I could actually go to the health club. I’m being serious. This is how I lived for seven years because you put the internal pressure on yourself, and in Memphis they care so much.”It’s a different vibe at Georgia Tech. Atlanta has the Falcons, the Braves and the Hawks, and the metropolitan area is passionate about college football.“What excited me about this job is that they were rebuilding,” Pastner said. “The bosses told me they were going to hit the restart button. It was literally going to be a start-up company, so I looked at this whole thing as an opportunity to put your footprint on it.”
A former Baylor student sued the university Friday, saying that it had failed to protect her from a gang rape by two former football players, one of whom had already been accused of rape.The federal lawsuit alleges that at least 52 rapes were committed by at least 31 Baylor players from 2011 through 2014, including at least five gang rapes. Such a total would be drastically higher than the number of sexual assaults the university has previously said occurred.Several other women have sued Baylor, which is in Waco, Tex., on similar grounds.The Baylor student, who filed under a pseudonym, said that the Waco Police Department had been notified of the alleged sexual assault in 2013 but had conducted a cursory investigation and had not interviewed either of the accused assailants.Baylor’s interim president, David E. Garland, said in a statement: “Our hearts go out to any victims of sexual assault. Any assault involving members of our campus community is reprehensible and inexcusable.” The statement did not address the specific allegations in the lawsuit.A Waco Police Department spokesman did not immediately reply to a request for comment.In a summary of an investigation conducted by the Pennsylvania-based law firm Pepper Hamilton, the Board of Regents acknowledged in May that athletic department officials had interfered with investigations of players suspected of rape, some of whom had been previously convicted of sexual assault. They also admitted a general failure to cultivate a safe campus environment, a violation of federal law under Title IX.That report led to the demotion of the university’s president, Kenneth W. Starr, who later resigned his chancellorship and his position at Baylor Law School. The football coach, Art Briles, was fired, and that action was quickly followed by the resignation of Athletic Director Ian McCaw, who is now the athletic director at Liberty University in Lynchburg, Va.This fall, facing alumni pressure to make more of the investigation public, as well as a former Title IX coordinator’s assertion that she had been stymied in her efforts to do her job, several Regents told The Wall Street Journal that the Pepper Hamilton investigation had ascertained that 17 sexual assaults involving 19 players had occurred.“As hard as the events at Baylor have been for people to hear, what went on there was much worse than has been reported,” said John Clune, a lawyer representing the student who filed her lawsuit on Friday.The suit also asserts that at least five allegations were brought to athletics department staffers “who took no action” and that the assistant coach Kendal Briles, Art Briles’s son, had encouraged a prospect to commit to Baylor by telling him: “Do you like white women? Because we have a lot of them at Baylor, and they love football players.”Kendal Briles has since been named Florida Atlantic’s offensive coordinator. A spokesman for that university said Kendal Briles had no comment.Ernest Cannon, a lawyer for Art Briles, told The Associated Press that the culture described in the lawsuit did not exist.“If they were doing that it, would be terrible, but they weren’t doing that,” Cannon said. “Art wasn’t involved in anything like that. Lawyers have great imaginations when money is involved. It’s really sad.”Cannon told The Dallas Morning News that the quote in the lawsuit attributed to Kendal Briles did not “sound like the Kendal that I know.”Art Briles has sued the university for libel and conspiracy, denying that he had known of and failed to report assaults.Clune, who settled two other claims against Baylor, said in an email, “We have been working with Baylor on these football cases since the start of this and though we have appreciated their efforts to fix the problems, this is one that needed to be filed.”
For the first time, biologists have succeeded in growing human stem cells in pig embryos, shifting from science fiction to the realm of the possible the idea of developing human organs in animals for later transplant.The approach involves generating stem cells from a patient’s skin, growing the desired new organ in a large animal like a pig, and then harvesting it for transplant into the patient’s body. Since the organ would be made of a patient’s own cells, there would be little risk of immune rejection.The human-organ-growing pigs would be examples of chimeras, animals composed of two different genomes. They would be generated by implanting human stem cells into an early pig embryo, resulting in an animal composed of mixed pig and human cells.One team of biologists, led by Jun Wu and Juan Carlos Izpisua Belmonte at the Salk Institute, has shown for the first time that human stem cells can contribute to forming the tissues of a pig, despite the 90 million years of evolution between the two species.Another group, headed by Tomoyuki Yamaguchi and Hideyuki Sato of the University of Tokyo, and Hiromitsu Nakauchi of Stanford, has reversed diabetes in mice by inserting pancreas glands composed of mouse cells that were grown in a rat. The Salk team’s report is published in Thursday’s issue of Cell and the Stanford-Tokyo team’s in Wednesday’s issue of Nature.The two reports together establish the feasibility of trying to grow replacement human organs in animals, though such a goal is still far off.“I think this is very promising work in principle,” said Rudolf Jaenisch, a stem cell expert at the Whitehead Institute in Cambridge, Mass.Many technical and ethical barriers have yet to be overcome, but the research is advancing alongside the acute need for organs; some 76,000 people in the United States alone are awaiting transplants. Creating chimeras, especially those with human cells, may prove controversial, given the possibility that test animals could be humanized in undesirable ways. One would be if human cells should be incorporated into a pig’s brain, endowing it with human qualities. Almost no one wants a talking pig.Another untoward outcome would be if human cells should come to compose the pig’s reproductive tissues. Few people want to see what might result from the union between a pig with human sperm and a sow with human eggs.In 2005, Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas introduced a bill imposing a $1 million fine on anyone creating and profiting from a chimera with human cells in its brain or reproductive tissues. That bill went nowhere, but in deference to public concerns the National Institutes of Health in 2015 instituted a moratorium on using public funds to insert human cells into animal embryos.The N.I.H. proposed last August to lift the ban, but to require grant proposals involving the insertion of human stem cells into early animal embryos to be examined by an expert committee. The public comment period on the proposal drew 22,000 responses that it reviewed. .The ban is still in place, and it’s unclear whether the Trump administration would continue to consider lifting the moratorium or whether new objections would be raised to using public funds for this line of research.“We have no indication one way or another that they have any opinions on this,” said Carrie D. Wolinetz, the associate director for science policy at the N.I.H.Insertion of human stem cells into the early embryos of monkeys was prohibited in 2009, and remains so because monkeys, given their evolutionary closeness to humans, might easily have their brains altered by human cells.Biologists’ interest in chimeras has been prompted by the limited success in coaxing medically useful tissues from stem cells grown in glassware. All-purpose human stem cells were first derived from human embryos in 1998 and from ordinary adult tissue cells in 2007. After each discovery there were hopes of converting the cells into therapeutic tissues by exposing them in glassware to the sequence of natural chemicals that in the living embryo directs them into constructing the heart, brain, lungs and other organs.But no one knows exactly what sequence of chemicals is required for the generation of each different tissue or organ. This may be why glassware experiments with stem cells have not yet lived up to their full promise. Some biologists believe a better approach may be to grow stem cells not in glassware but in a developing embryo, where they will be exposed to the natural sequence of chemicals required to induce each type of organ.“In the last 18 years, hundreds of labs, including ours, have tried to generate different cell types from human pluripotent stem cells in the culture dish with a cocktail of factors,” Dr. Izpisua Belmonte said. “But the cocktails are not identical to what the cells experience in the embryo. So I thought, ‘Why not let nature do the job?’”Dr. Izpisua Belmonte’s and Dr. Nakauchi’s teams have both pursued a strategy of directing the human donor cells to generate specific organs in the recipient species. This is desirable for both technical and ethical reasons. Dr. Nakauchi has disabled the master gene in rats for making a pancreas so that when mouse stem cells are injected into the early embryo of such a rat, the growing embryo has no choice but to construct its pancreas of pure mouse cells, instead of the usual mixture of rat and mouse cells.Generating inviting homes for the donor cells may reduce the risk that they will be incorporated in nontarget tissues like the brain or reproductive tissues. Also, an organ made purely of donor cells can be transplanted into the donor animal with minimal fear of rejection.In practice, about 10 percent of the mouse pancreases generated in rats was composed of rat cells, because the rat supplies the blood vessels for the organ. But the rat blood vessels seem to be quickly replaced when the organs are transferred to mice.The mice with their new pancreases lived in good health for a year after the transplant. They came from the same inbred strain as the donor mice, so they did not reject their new organs.The result provides proof of principle that Type 1 diabetes can be treated by growing a pancreas from an individual’s cells in another animal, Dr. Nakauchi and colleagues conclude.The next step is to repeat the experiment in pigs, which produce organs of a more suitable size for use in humans. Dr. Izpisua Belmonte’s team has now shown that human stem cells do survive in pig embryos and help form their organs, although not very efficiently. “The human cell doesn’t contribute much. To the brain we observed little or no contribution at all,” said his colleague Dr. Wu. “This is good news because we can guide the human cells to the organ we want.”Both Dr. Izpisua Belmonte and Dr. Nakauchi said there was a long way to go before human organs could successfully be grown in animals like pigs. Chimeras will be more immediately useful in studying human embryogenesis, testing drugs and following the progress of disease.To achieve the goal of growing human organs for transplant, researchers must first engineer pigs that cannot make the organ of interest. In mice, this has already been done for the pancreas, heart and eye. They must then show that human stem cells can construct such an organ in a pig. Since the pig will supply the blood vessels and nerves, these will need to be replaced by the recipient’s cells after transplant without triggering immune rejection.If rejection does occur, the researchers will have to knock out the pig’s vasculature genes and arrange for these too to be humanized. Complex organs, like the heart, will be harder to grow than those like the pancreas which has a single kind of progenitor cell. All these steps, though they seem feasible, will require several years to develop and test.Both scientists expressed confidence that ethical concerns about chimera research could be addressed. Chimeras are typically mosaics in which each organ is a mixture of the host and donor cells. But new techniques like the Crispr-Cas gene editing system should allow the human cells in a pig embryo both to be channeled into organs of interest and to be excluded from tissues of concern like the brain and reproductive tissues.“This isn’t dangerous research. We’re not creating monsters,” Dr. Nakauchi said.“There isn’t a need to get into a debate about moral humanization if scientists target the organs where the human cells will go,” said Insoo Hyun, a medical ethicist at Case Western Reserve University. “Scientists are not making chimeras just for fun — it’s to relieve the dire shortage of transplantable organs.”Concern about human cells’ incorporation into a lower animal’s brain is not without basis. Dr. Steven Goldman of the University of Rochester Medical Center found in 2013 that mice injected with a special type of human brain cell had enhanced learning abilities. But other forms of humanized mice, such as mice engineered to have a human immune system, are routine laboratory animals that seem to occasion little angst.Dr. Izpisua Belmonte’s insertion of human stem cells into pig embryos was not affected by the N.I.H. moratorium on such chimeras because he used private funds. His experiment was approved by the authorities in Spain and in California, and following their advice, the development of the pig chimeras was stopped after four weeks in the womb.Dr. Nakauchi moved his lab to Stanford from Tokyo in 2014 because Japanese regulations do not allow chimera research, only to be hit with the N.I.H. moratorium a year later, which prevented him from making chimeras with human cells. His mouse pancreas experiment has taken eight or nine years to complete. “I have been in a very frustrating situation,” he said.
New year, new designer turnover.After weeks of speculation that the creative director of Chloé, Clare Waight Keller, was leaving after six years, and “no comment” responses from executives, the French fashion house finally confirmed her departure on Monday. Her last collection for the house will be shown at Paris Fashion Week on March 2, and a successor has not yet been announced.“Clare has been a remarkable partner at Chloé over the past six years,” Geoffroy de la Bourdonnaye, chief executive of the company, said in a statement. “She helped rejuvenate the legacy of Gaby Aghion, the first ever Chloé girl, by infusing a cool and easy breeze into the Chloé wardrobe, effortlessly mixing graceful and feminine ‘flou’ with a freewheeling and boyish take on tailoring.”Ms. Waight Keller, a Briton, joined Chloé from Pringle of Scotland in 2011, after designers including Paulo Melim Andersson and Hannah MacGibbon tried, unsuccessfully, to recapture the retail magic the brand enjoyed under the designer Phoebe Philo, who left in 2006. Ms. Waight Keller, whose soft-spoken mien belies a tough core, rejuvenated the house with a highly wearable and bohemian flair as well as a successful high profit margin accessories business.In an interim report for the six months ended Sept. 30, Chloé’s parent company, Compagnie Financière Richemont, reported “good sales growth,” but it did not provide financial numbers for its individual luxury brands, which also include Cartier and Van Cleef & Arpels.In the report, Mr. de la Bourdonnaye cited the “Drew” bag as having contributed to a strong performance by Chloé accessories.But sales at Richemont in the six months ended Sept. 30 were down 12.6 percent, to 5.1 billion euros, or $5.4 billion at current exchange rates, from the year-earlier period as a result of falling demand across all regions, underscoring the challenging times facing luxury companies.Chloé did not give a reason for Ms. Waight Keller’s departure, but her family moved to London from Paris last year, and she has been dividing her time between the two cities.That she is returning home despite Chloé’s success is sure to fuel speculation that she chose her family and personal life over the relentless hamster wheel of fashion’s multiplying seasons — a favorite narrative in fashion today. But given that Raf Simons, for example, whose departure from Dior in 2015 was widely (and wrongly) attributed to a desire for time out, shortly thereafter announced a move to the creative top of the behemoth Calvin Klein, it is possible Ms. Waight Keller, too, has a job in the offing.Which means that while one set of whispers from the rampant fashion rumor mill have ended, more will spring up — not only speculation about what Ms. Waight Keller might do next but also around who will get her job at Chloé.According to WWD, the answer is Natacha Ramsay-Levi, a longtime associate of Nicolas Ghesquière, artistic director of women’s collections at Louis Vuitton. Ms. Ramsay-Levi, a senior director at Louis Vuitton, also worked with Mr. Ghesquière at Balenciaga, where he was at the creative helm for 15 years.Should Ms. Ramsay-Levi be named to the post, it would present yet another change for the brand, away from Ms. Waight Keller’s soft-focus  cool, and into a harder-edge, more techno-hip aesthetic.It would also fuel (yet more) speculation that Mr. Ghesquière is considering leaving Vuitton. But let’s leave that gossip for another day.In an acknowledgment of a rare amicable parting of ways between designer and brand, Chloé plans to host a party for Ms. Waight Keller on the evening after her autumn/winter 2017 collection show.It will be a final departure, not only for Ms. Waight Keller but also from recent industry practice, with brands more often than not allowing designer-leaving rumors to fester through a maybe-or-maybe-not final show, casting an ambiguous pall over the event for critics and retailers. It recasts the last collection as the celebratory closing of one chapter and the start of another.Hopefully, given the rate of designer churn, it might even be a new trend.
To make ballet contemporary again, modern music and modern sensibilities are needed. And lo! Thursday night at New York City Ballet brought two world premieres, entirely unalike, each to new music, each distinctly reflecting the world we inhabit today: “The Shimmering Asphalt,” choreographed by Pontus Lidberg to a commissioned score by David Lang, and “The Times Are Racing,” by Justin Peck (the company’s resident choreographer since 2014) to recorded music by Dan Deacon. Warm ovations greeted both.Deservedly. Both are distinct, skilled, arresting. Yet they’re hard to grasp on a single viewing: more immediately striking as authoritative exercises in style than as absorbing worlds to inhabit. Each is sophisticated; there’s plenty of detail and structural complexity here to reward later visits. But are they as accomplished in substance as they are in manner? It’s good that they remain in repertory into February and then return in May.Mr. Peck’s “The Times Are Racing” (24 minutes long) — an excitingly “now” piece in the way it catches the mood of 21st-century urban protest and the evening’s biggest hit with the audience — is danced in sneakers; its dancers are otherwise dressed (by Humberto Leon) in a motley assortment of urban wear — shorts, jeans, raincoats, T-shirts — as well as a leotard or two. The dance style, with a strong emphasis on currents of motion through the upper body, informal posture and gesture, as well as sequences of tap, makes this work a young relation to such dances as Jerome Robbins’s “N.Y. Export: Opus Jazz” and a number of early pieces by Twyla Tharp (“Deuce Coupe” and “Ocean’s Motion,” for example).The music — taped, electronic, hard-hitting, insistently pulsating — is “USA I-IV,” from Mr. Deacon’s album “America.” To my ear, this is tiresome, but so is the Tchaikovsky “Allegro Brillante” used in the 1956 Balanchine ballet of that name; what matters is that Balanchine’s choreography makes his score insidious whereas, on first acquaintance, Mr. Peck’s doesn’t. Mr. Peck’s taste in, and response to, contemporary music seem the weakest aspect of his generally formidable talent.“The Times” features one lead male-female couple (Amar Ramasar and Tiler Peck); two other lead dancers (Robert Fairchild and Mr. Peck himself); a quartet of one man (Sean Suozzi) with three women (Brittany Pollack, Gretchen Smith, Savannah Lowery); as well as a corps of six woman and six men. There’s no hierarchy. Even corps dancers are given individual moments, and the stars are part of a communal climate. The mood of modern protest is evident in groupings (imagery of human microphones, for example), in percussive attack and in hurtling energy.Brisk tap duets for Mr. Fairchild and Mr. Peck make a terrific impact. Images of wild, untrammeled force from the corps are memorable. The quartet for Mr. Suozzi and his three companions is slow: a welcome change of tempo as well as a vivid statement of equality. I found, however, the duets for Ms. Peck and Mr. Ramasar bland.The intensity of every dancer — as always with Mr. Peck’s creations for City Ballet — is a thrill. They certainly believe in “The Times Are Racing.” As yet, I’m not sure I do.By contrast, Mr. Lidberg’s “The Shimmering Asphalt,” 22 minutes long, is an investigation of contemporary ballet classicism, with pointwork and turned-out body language. Its five-part score music (titled “Shade”) is for violin, cello and piano.The mood is consistently poetic and atmospheric: a 21st-century nocturne in which tensions change. Mr. Lang’s music is a five-part essay in what can be called classical post-minimalism, beautiful in changing sonorities and suggestions of fragmented melody. Mark Stanley’s lighting sets the dance against a night sky in which stars dimly twinkle; he also lights much of the dance from above, which, despite the suggestion of strong moonlight, distances us from the dancers and makes them hard to identify. Rachel Quarmby-Spadaccini’s costumes are in a selection of blues and grays, with men, bare-chested, in short kilts.You can feel “Asphalt” making experiments as it proceeds. A quintet for Sara Mearns with four men is succeeded by another for Taylor Stanley with four women: issues about gender are examined throughout, with same-sex and other-sex partnering fluently interleaved. Women sometimes steer or support men. Ballet tradition is another theme: George Balanchine’s “Serenade” is specifically evoked.There are nine principal roles. Rebecca Krohn, Ms. Peck, Chase Finlay and Russell Janzen also register strongly, while Sterling Hyltin, Lauren Lovette, and Gonzalo Garcia each have opportunities. There are six supporting dancers (three men, three women); and, as with Mr. Peck’s premiere, every soloist is often shown as part of an inclusive ensemble. Another question this ballet asks is “How does a ballerina fit in to the group?” Often, here, she stands apart. I enjoy this choreography moment by moment; yet it’s nebulous, running through the mind like water through the fingers.Mr. Peck’s “Scherzo Fantastique,” new last July in City Ballet’s season in Saratoga, had its New York City premiere on Sunday, as part of an all-Stravinsky premiere. As before, the bright, Fauve colors of costumes (Reid Bartelme and Harriet Jung) and sets (Jules de Balincourt) burst happily on the eyes. As yet, Mr. Peck’s choreography and its performances haven’t settled on the Koch stage; but this — Mr. Peck’s first creation to Stravinsky — is already buzzy.
SAN FRANCISCO — New Zealand first.That was pretty much Peter Thiel’s feeling a few years ago, when the tech investor and future adviser to Donald J. Trump decided he loved the South Pacific island nation so much he wanted to become a citizen there.“I am happy to say categorically that I have found no other country that aligns more with my view of the future than New Zealand,” Mr. Thiel wrote in his application. The 49-year-old investor, who was born in Germany, was granted New Zealand citizenship in 2011 but kept his American citizenship.Officials in New Zealand released documents related to Mr. Thiel’s application and approval Tuesday night, offering new details about his effort years ago to become a citizen in the middle of the current uproar in the United States over President Trump’s border control measures. That citizenship has raised questions in New Zealand about the government’s motivation, as documents show officials citing Mr. Thiel’s financial support and letting other requirements — like living there — slide.Mr. Trump’s order, signed on Friday, temporarily banned all refugees as well as all citizens from Iran, Iraq and five other predominantly Muslim nations. Nowhere among corporations have the protests been greater than in the technology community, whose employees — and customers — cover the globe.Mr. Thiel weighed in on the controversy Saturday night, saying through a spokesman that he did not support a religious test for entry into America, “and the administration has not imposed one.” He was the only major figure in Silicon Valley to vocally support the president.Six years ago, however, Mr. Thiel didn’t always consider America First, as Mr. Trump’s slogan goes. According to the application, Mr. Thiel saw the vast promise of New Zealand and set up a fund there to invest in its start-ups. He vowed to become an unofficial ambassador for the country if granted citizenship.“I intend to devote a significant amount of my time and resources to the people and businesses of New Zealand,” he told the authorities.At one point he had invested $3 million in Xero, a New Zealand accounting firm, according to the company, and $4 million in Pacific Fibre, which hoped to build a trans-Pacific cable, according to local news reports.He said that “the wide global network I have cultivated would be of great value to New Zealand, and it would give me great pride to let it be known that I am a New Zealand citizen and an enthusiastic supporter of the country.”About 30,000 people apply for citizenship every year in New Zealand, where the population is less than five million, according to data from the country’s Internal Affairs Department. Only a handful — around one to two dozen a year — are approved for citizenship by the minister of internal affairs under “exceptional” circumstances, the data showed.Mr. Thiel was one of those. In the application, he noted that he did not fulfill the residency requirements and said that he did not intend to live in the country if he secured citizenship.Iain Lees-Galloway, a spokesman for Labour, the country’s main opposition party, said the citizenship file confirmed “everything that we suspected.”“The decision to grant Mr. Thiel citizenship is entirely based on money,” Mr. Lees-Galloway said in an interview.As the application process continued, Mr. Thiel was not shy about mentioning that fact.“I had a sudden thought last night that I may have overlooked mentioning Peter Thiel’s $1 million donation to the Christchurch earthquake appeal,” an email in the file read, referring to a gift in New Zealand dollars. While the sender and recipient were redacted, it was apparently sent by a member of Mr. Thiel’s staff. Nearly 200 people were killed in the quake, which struck in February 2011.“Essentially, Mr. Thiel has been granted citizenship on the grounds that he is a wealthy person,” Mr. Lees-Galloway said.Mr. Thiel received his citizenship in a ceremony at the New Zealand Consulate in Santa Monica, Calif., the documents showed.“He didn’t even become a citizen in New Zealand — that demonstrates to me that he has no ongoing commitment to New Zealand, and I don’t think he is a good candidate for New Zealand citizenship,” Mr. Lees-Galloway said. “It’s getting close to corruption.”Mr. Lees-Galloway said the New Zealand Citizenship Act of 1977 was out of date. “We live in a turbulent world, an unstable world where New Zealand citizenship has actually become an asset and our government seems to be treating it like a commodity,” he said. “We need to decide as a nation on what grounds do we grant citizenship.”A spokesman for Mr. Thiel in San Francisco declined to comment Tuesday night. The New Zealand Interior Ministry declined to comment further on the filings.Mr. Thiel gave more than $1 million to Mr. Trump late in the campaign. The donation received much criticism in Silicon Valley, but it got Mr. Thiel a major position on Mr. Trump’s transition team.Nathan Guy, the minister of internal affairs at the time that Mr. Thiel was granted citizenship, defended the move this week. “The decision that I made in my view was the right one,” Mr. Guy told the local news media. “I felt with his good character and the contribution that he was going to make to New Zealand, and indeed has made, that he’s suitable and worthy of being a fantastic New Zealand citizen.”Mr. Thiel received the right of permanent residency in 2007, which gave him the ability to come and go freely. But citizenship was the goal.His advisers wrote to the government that Mr. Thiel believed “citizenship is irrevocable.”“It is the public recognition of a hallowed bond,” they said. “For that reason and others, he is prepared to make this solemn allegiance and to hereby embrace and contribute to the life, history and culture of New Zealand.”
UNITED NATIONS — The American ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki R. Haley, issued a stark warning on Friday to allies and rivals abroad, saying in her first remarks at the headquarters of the world body that the Trump administration would hold to account those who do not back the United States.“You’re going to see a change in the way we do business,” Ms. Haley said. “Our goal with the administration is to show value at the U.N., and the way we’ll show value is to show our strength, show our voice, have the backs of our allies and make sure our allies have our back as well.”“For those who don’t have our back,” she added, “we’re taking names; we will make points to respond to that accordingly.”Ms. Haley offered no further details in brief remarks to reporters, nor did she take questions, before presenting her diplomatic credentials to the secretary general, António Guterres. A former socialist politician from Portugal who took over the United Nations at the start of the year, Mr. Guterres is under pressure to persuade the Trump administration to not gouge the organization and to uphold America’s international obligations, including on climate change.President Trump has dismissed the United Nations as a social club and suggested the United States could cut its funding of the organization’s efforts. His “America first” pledges have raised concerns among diplomats at the United Nations about his commitment to international cooperation.The administration’s antipathy toward the United Nations has been sharpened since a Security Council resolution last month condemning Israeli settlements. Mr. Trump and Ms. Haley have criticized the Obama administration’s decision not to veto the resolution. And several Republican senators have supported legislation threatening to defund the United Nations unless the Security Council reverses the terms of the resolution, which Council diplomats say would be politically unworkable.The United States is the United Nations’ largest single donor, providing 22 percent of its regular budget, according to the terms of an international agreement that sets a country’s contribution based on its wealth. That assessed contribution pays for operating expenses like the electricity bills at its headquarters and human rights investigations in places like Syria and South Sudan. The United States also contributes voluntarily to other United Nations programs, including those that provide food and blankets to refugees fleeing war zones and that immunize children against preventable diseases.A draft executive order obtained by The New York Times proposes at least a 40 percent cut to those voluntary funds. Some of the provisions in the draft text are redundant, and it is unclear how serious these proposals are, or if they will ever be signed. Current and former officials said Friday that the Trump administration was delaying its plan to issue the order.The money that the United States voluntarily contributes to the United Nations is a little over 0.1 percent of the total federal budget. Some Republican lawmakers have sought in the past to make some of the assessed dues also voluntary, but that idea has never passed muster with Congress. One area that is likely to draw scrutiny from the Trump administration, judging from what Ms. Haley said during her confirmation hearing, is peacekeeping. The United States pays the largest share of the peacekeeping budget — about 28 percent — but provides virtually no soldiers The threats to cut funding come as China has stepped up its role at the United Nations, increasing its support for peacekeeping and development aid. China also has a veto in the Security Council. “This is a time of strength, this is a time of action, this is a time of getting things done,” Ms. Haley said on Friday, adding that she was prepared to re-evaluate the United Nations’ efforts.“Everything that’s working we’re going to make it better. Everything that’s not working we’re going to try and fix. And anything that seems to be obsolete and not necessary we’re going to do away with,” she said.Her tone was in contrast to a far more conciliatory approach just days ago, when she faced a Senate confirmation hearing. There, she said she did not favor a “slash and burn” approach to American contributions to the United Nations, but she questioned its value to American national interests.“Are we getting what we pay for?” she asked.Ms. Haley, 45, a former Republican governor of South Carolina and one of Mr. Trump’s most outspoken critics during the campaign, had tried to distance herself from some of what Mr. Trump has said about international diplomacy. She has said she favors continuing sanctions against Russia, for instance, but also cooperation with the Kremlin on counterterrorism. She has said she is concerned about security threats posed by refugees, and while she said climate change was “on the table,” she said she did not favor policies that imperiled business.
PARK CITY, Utah — In ordinary years, the focus at the Sundance Film Festival is often on the breakout movie, the essential title that everyone wants to see and insists that you need to see. This year, however, is not like most years, and with a new president in the White House, the festival itself — which opened the day before the inauguration and closes on Sunday — has inescapably become the biggest story here. Because, much as it does every year, this event provides an influential, highly visible platform for the kinds of progressive ideas and voices that have come under attack by President Trump.Among the selections that screened in the festival’s early days was a movie about a Pakistani-American struggling with his identity (“The Big Sick”) and a period drama about race and the legacy of American slavery, directed by a black lesbian (“Mudbound”). And among the opening-night titles was “An Inconvenient Sequel,” a surprisingly hopeful follow-up to “An Inconvenient Truth,” about Al Gore’s continuing efforts to stop climate change and spread the word about what he calls “the sustainability revolution.” He may need to step up his efforts: The day after the premiere, all references to climate change were purged from the official White House website.The Sundance Institute, which runs the festival, takes pride in its role as an instrument for independent artists and those often excluded from the mainstream. Diversity, its website announces, is one of “the core values driving the institute’s work.” At the opening news conference, Robert Redford, who established the institute in 1981 and is now 80, has repeatedly affirmed the festival’s commitment to diversity. At this year’s opening news conference, he also offered a kind of disclaimer: “We try to stay away from politics, per se. We stay focused on what are the stories being told by artists.” That may be the public party line, but much depends on how you define political cinema and that historically contested word “independence.”Certainly, it can seem easier to see the politics in the documentaries at Sundance rather than those in some of the narrative fictions. Class and race intersect meaningfully in the wonderful documentary “Quest,” a decades-plus labor of love from Jonathan Olshefski, about a black Philadelphia family that looks at ordinary people enduring familiar and uncommon experiences, including violence. Much of the movie’s power arises from its insistence on how larger forces affect lives, an intersection of the personal and the political that also informs two devastating documentaries on Syria: Matthew Heineman’s “City of Ghosts” and Feras Fayyad’s “Last Men in Aleppo.”There’s no ready-made definition of political film, which, unlike, say, pornography (“I know it when I see it,” the Supreme Court justice Potter Stewart memorably said), isn’t necessarily obvious. “All the President’s Men,” which gave Mr. Redford one of his most enduring roles, as Bob Woodward, is an openly and transparently political film because it concerns the journalistic investigation into the scandal that eventually brought down a president. “The Big Sick,” a tear-splashed comedy, isn’t likely to do anything but bring down whatever house it plays in, but it’s an inherently political work because it involves a Muslim American struggling with identity, family and love.Directed by Michael Showalter, “The Big Sick ” relates an all-too-true reality-shifting chapter in the lives of its writers, the comic Kumail Nanjiani (“Silicon Valley”), who was born in Pakistan, and his American girlfriend turned wife, Emily V. Gordon. Mr. Nanjiani plays himself (and very persuasively, too), while Zoe Kazan goes light and dark as Emily, whose good-natured heckling during one of Kumail’s stand-up routines leads to romance. Before tragedy thunders in, the story toggles between Kumail’s comedy career and his increasingly turbulent offstage life: He has feelings for Emily but also a sense of obligation to his Muslim parents, who want him to wed a Pakistani.“The Big Sick” plays both its comedic and more dramatic incidents nice and easy, with modest and generous laughs folded into an audience-friendly package. (It was produced by Judd Apatow and Barry Mendel.) Kumail’s struggle can be viewed in terms of identity politics, but, like most mainstream work, the film resolutely leads with the personal rather than engaging in sloganeering or advancing an overtly political agenda. If there’s a system of oppression that Kumail grapples with, it is cultural tradition. Yet what makes “The Big Sick” an inarguably political movie is the representation of an immigrant who is singularly talented and just an average, confused American guy.Identity and its discontents swirl through “Mudbound,” directed by Dee Rees, who was last at Sundance in 2011 with her coming-of-age story “Pariah.” Sweeping and thrillingly ambitious, this generational drama tells two parallel stories, those of a black family and of the white family that owns the land on which they all live, work and struggle. The excellent cast includes Carey Mulligan, whose character marries into the white family, led by a racist patriarch. The movie’s radicalness is that it gives equal time to each family — Mary J. Blige plays another mother — dynamically putting them into play to create a story told in black, white and deepest red.“Mudbound” represents a huge increase in scale for Ms. Rees, who also directed “Bessie” for HBO. American female filmmakers don’t often get the chance to tell such large-canvas stories, especially ones that, like “Mudbound,” unwind over years and include war scenes, in this case on the front lines of World War II. At times, the multiplicity of voices crowds the movie, but in insisting on pluralism, rather than individualism, Ms. Rees manages to undermine the dominant great-man and not-so-great-man narrative. In “Mudbound,” there is no single heroic figure, either black or white, leading the story to its end, but rather deeply American heroic and desperate actions.As is often the case at Sundance, the presence of multidimensional, difficult, sometimes flat-out unlikable women remains very welcome, especially given the larger mainstream picture (where male characters outnumber female). With his new movie, “Golden Exits,” Alex Ross Perry affirms that he’s both one of the most talented younger filmmakers working in American movies, and a great writer of roles for women. The story involves the effect, direct and indirect, that a young woman (Emily Browning) has on a group of friends and strangers, including two sets of sisters (Lily Rabe, Analeigh Tipton, Chloë Sevigny and a hilariously acerbic Mary-Louise Parker).Salma Hayek is the star and radiant center of “Beatriz at Dinner,” Miguel Arteta’s scathing, at times scathingly funny comedy about a California neo-hippie — she works as a holistic healer and keeps pet goats — who inadvertently and catastrophically ends up mingling with the 1 percent (principally embodied with casual imperiousness by John Lithgow). Written by Mike White, the movie touches on some of the same themes that informed his film “Year of the Dog” and his regrettably canceled HBO series “Enlightened,” namely the comedy and sometimes tragedy of living and doing good in an often aggressively hostile, dangerous world.Two stars are born in “Patti Cake$,” one of those rare crowd-pleasers that earn their love honestly. The first is the sensational Danielle Macdonald, who plays the second: the movie’s title character, also known as Patricia Dombrowski, a poor white New Jersey rapper who, with her tiny diverse posse (Cathy Moriarty, Siddharth Dhananjay and Mamoudou Athie), yearns to cross the bridge to fame and fortune. Written and directed by Geremy Jasper, the movie treads familiar aspirational ground: Patricia has dreams, pluck and obstacles (she’s routinely taunted because of her weight), but her outsider status isn’t fetishized or romanticized, and she’s divinely real.That’s been the case for some of the most memorable titles this year and in years past. Over its decades-long history, Sundance has tried to find a balance between its desire to promote independent artists and the demands of the mainstream movie industry, which siphons off some of the festival’s more commercially exploitable talent. At times, the industry’s presence has overwhelmed Sundance, but in recent years, there’s been a sense that it has shaken somewhat free of that influence. And just in time, too, because if one thing this year’s edition makes clear, it’s that while this festival may officially try to stay away from politics, politics always finds its way to Sundance.
WASHINGTON — Until Tuesday, the fight over Betsy DeVos’s nomination to be secretary of education revolved mostly around her support of contentious school choice programs.But her confirmation hearing that night opened her up to new criticism: that her long battle for school choice, controversial as it has been, is the sum total of her experience and understanding of education policy. In questioning by senators, she seemed either unaware or unsupportive of the longstanding policies and functions of the department she is in line to lead, from special education rules to the policing of for-profit universities.Ms. DeVos admitted that she might have been “confused” when she appeared not to know that the broad statute that has governed special education for more than four decades is federal law.A billionaire investor, education philanthropist and Michigan Republican activist, Ms. DeVos acknowledged that she has no personal experience with student loans — the federal government is the largest provider — and said she would have to “review” the department’s policies that try to prevent fraud by for-profit colleges.She appeared blank on basic education terms. Asked how school performance should be assessed, she did not know the difference between growth, which measures how much students have learned over a given period, and proficiency, which measures how many students reach a targeted score.Ms. DeVos even became something of an internet punch line when she suggested that some school officials should be allowed to carry guns on the premises to defend against grizzly bears.But if she was sometimes rattled on the specifics, Ms. DeVos was unshakable in her belief that education authority should devolve away from the federal government and toward state and local authorities. Whether the issue was allowing guns in schools, how to investigate sexual assault on college campuses, or how to measure learning, her answer was always that states and what she called “locales” knew best.Those answers reflected the same instinct that has driven her advocacy of school choice, primarily vouchers, which take money from public schools to help families pay tuition at private schools, and charter schools, which are publicly funded but typically independent of school district or union rules. As she said bluntly in a 2015 education speech, “Government really sucks.”Ms. DeVos’s supporters defended her performance at the hearing, saying she showed herself to be a champion of innovation against Democrats’ defending the status quo.“They tried their best to turn her into Cruella de Vil, but America got to see the real Betsy DeVos first hand,” said Ed Patru, a spokesman for a group calling itself Friends of Betsy DeVos. “The country saw an authentic, compassionate and eminently reasonable education leader who is committed to empowering parents and putting kids first.”With a Republican-controlled Senate, Ms. DeVos is still likely to be confirmed. But her statements on special education could make her vulnerable; families of children with special needs are a vocal lobby, one that Republicans do not want to alienate.The federal Individuals With Disabilities Education Act, or IDEA, has governed special education in the nation’s public schools since the mid-1970s. Before the law, states and local school districts had been excluding or essentially warehousing students with disabilities.Complaints from states and local school districts have been less about the law than about the federal government’s failure to pay its promised share of the costs. But at the hearing, Ms. DeVos questioned the basic premise that the federal government has a role in ensuring that any school receiving taxpayer dollars — whether a traditional public school, a charter or a private school accepting vouchers — comply with the law’s requirements for students with special needs.Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia, last year’s Democratic nominee for vice president, asked Ms. DeVos whether schools that receive tax dollars should be required to meet the requirements of IDEA.“I think that is a matter that’s best left to the states,” Ms. DeVos replied.Mr. Kaine came back: “So some states might be good to kids with disabilities, and other states might not be so good, and then what? People can just move around the country if they don’t like how their kids are being treated?”Ms. DeVos repeated, “I think that is an issue that’s best left to the states.”“It’s federal law,” an exasperated Mr. Kaine replied.Mr. Kaine then asked if all elementary and secondary schools receiving tax dollars should be required to comply with reporting requirements on harassment, discipline and bullying.Ms. DeVos answered, “I would look forward to reviewing that provision.”Senator Maggie Hassan, Democrat of New Hampshire, pressed Ms. DeVos about whether she really intended to say that states could ignore the law.“Were you unaware that it was federal law?” Ms. Hassan asked.Ms. DeVos answered, “I may have confused it.”Ms. Hassan, who has a son with cerebral palsy, expressed concerns about private schools that accept vouchers on the condition that students waive legal rights under federal education law.“Do you think families should have recourse in the courts if schools don’t meet their needs?” she asked.“Senator, I assure you that if confirmed I will be very sensitive to the needs of special needs students,” Ms. DeVos said.“It’s not about sensitivity, although that helps,” Ms. Hassan countered. “It’s about being willing to enforce the law to make sure that my child and every child has the same access to public education, high-quality public education.”In her opening statement, Ms. DeVos spoke of wanting to expand options for higher education beyond traditional “brick and mortar and ivy.”Senator Elizabeth Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, asked Ms. DeVos whether she would enforce Obama-era education policies intended to prevent fraud at for-profit colleges — institutions like Trump University, which paid to settle federal class action lawsuits accusing it of using marketing tactics to enroll students.“I will review that rule and see that it is actually achieving what the intentions are,” Ms. DeVos said.Ms. Warren, in apparent disbelief, responded: “Swindlers and crooks are out there doing back flips when they hear an answer like this.”She added, “If confirmed, you will be the cop on the beat, and if you can’t commit to use the tools already available to you in the Department of Education, then I don’t see how you can be the secretary of education.”
In 1931, the town of Rugby, N.D., erected a 15-foot stone monument declaring itself the “Geographical Center of North America.” For 85 years, the town has enjoyed a steady stream of tourists to the monument and local gift shops.But recently, Rugby received an unwelcome challenge, from a bar about 100 miles south. “By our calculations, the center of North America is in Robinson, a couple feet outside Hanson’s Bar,” said Bill Bender, the owner of Hanson’s and mayor of Robinson, N.D., which has a population of 40. “We have as much claim to it as anybody does.”Now the science of geography may prove them both wrong. When Peter Rogerson, a geography professor at the University at Buffalo, heard about the kerfuffle, he decided to weigh in. In 2015, he had published a new method for calculating geographic centers. Using this method, he found that the continental center was in a town called (wait for it) Center, N.D. By car, Center is 145 miles southwest of Rugby and 90 miles west of Robinson.The novelty of Dr. Rogerson’s method is the map projection he used. Map projections transform Earth’s three-dimensional surface into two dimensions. The process always introduces some distortion, in shape, area, distance or direction. Perhaps the most well-known projection is the Mercator, which greatly distorts size, showing Greenland at roughly the same size as Africa, when Africa is 14 times as big. Another projection, the Mollweide, preserves size, but distorts shape, direction and distance.To calculate geographic centers, Dr. Rogerson uses the azimuthal equidistant projection, which accurately shows distances and angles from its center, at the expense of shape and size toward its edges. (Think of the flag of the United Nations, centered on the North Pole.) With accurate distances, Dr. Rogerson can calculate the point at which the sum of squared distances to all other points in the region would be smallest — the mathematical definition of a geographic center.“When I ran my computer program and looked at the final latitude and longitude, I was astounded to see that it was in a place called Center,” he said of calculating the midpoint of North America.It’s not hard to argue that Dr. Rogerson’s claim is more precise than Rugby’s and Mr. Bender’s.Rugby snatched the title of geographic center after the United States Geological Survey reported in 1931 that the heart of North America was six miles west of a town called Balta, N.D., which is 16 miles southwest of Rugby. Back then, geographers balanced a cardboard cutout of a region on a needlelike point to find its center — not the most sophisticated approach.Mr. Bender said that one night he and some buddies in Robinson realized over beer and bourbon that the Geological Survey’s center wasn’t in Rugby. So they eyeballed North America’s center using a ruler on several different maps. “It was trial and error,” he said. “I can’t give you an exact formula.”Last summer, Mr. Bender registered Hanson’s Bar as the owner of the phrase “Geographical Center of North America” with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Rugby’s registration had expired in 2009, when the town failed to file a renewal. A decal that reads “Geographic Center of North America” now sits on the floor of the bar, and Mr. Bender plans to build a monument outside.When word got out that Mr. Bender had nabbed the federal trademark, some residents in Rugby were concerned. “It’s been our main tourism draw for so long,” said Cathy Jelsing, director of the local Prairie Village Museum, who added that the town had just spent $5,000 sprucing up its stone monument.Officials from Rugby declined to comment, but Mr. Bender said he received a letter from the town’s lawyer, asking him to rethink his actions. Mr. Bender said he would prefer to settle things in a more civilized fashion — like a “charity boxing match” between mayors.It’s possible that Rugby has a case, said Josh Gerben, a trademark lawyer and founder of Gerben Law Firm, based in Washington. “If you use a trademark for long enough that people get to know you as the place where the trademark originates from, you have what’s called common law rights,” said Mr. Gerben, who has no stake in the conflict.People in Center are excited about Dr. Rogerson’s finding, said Rick Schmidt, a county extension agent and longtime Center resident.“We are basically a mining and agriculture community, and we just don’t have a lot of tourism opportunities right now,” he said. “For us to tap into something like this, I think it’d be very significant.”Mr. Schmidt added that the town, which has 570 residents and gets its name from being the center of Oliver County, hoped to embrace its status as continental center without stepping on Rugby’s toes. If it came down to a fight, though, he says he thinks Center would pursue legal action, “if we feel we have a good case.”Theoretically, science could be used in court to challenge Rugby’s and Robinson’s claims. Expert testimony from Dr. Rogerson and other scientists could be used to challenge a trademark claim on the grounds that it is deceptive, Mr. Gerben said.That may be easier said than done, though — the final decision would be up to a judge or a jury, and Dr. Rogerson’s findings have no official backing. Past Geological Survey reports have stated that “there is no generally accepted definition of geographic center, and no completely satisfactory method for determining it.”If the government were to change its mind, however, Dr. Rogerson’s method would be the way to go, said Francis Boscoe, a professor at the University at Albany who once calculated the center of Pennsylvania (which, incidentally, is in a county called Centre).“If I were going to build a monument, I’d pick his spot,” Dr. Boscoe said. “As far as what you can do while sitting at your desk, his method is about as good as you can do.”
More law school graduates, laden with six-figure debt, have been questioning whether their investment in a degree that comes with such a hefty tuition price tag pays off with a highly paid job.Elite institutions are generally worth the outlay, but, according to a newly released study, a few less nationally known schools also make the cut.The University of Texas at Austin, the University of Houston and the University of Georgia were among the 10 schools offering the best salary-to-debt ratios, according to the study by SoFi, which stands for Social Finance Inc., an online student loan refinance company. They are grouped with Harvard, Yale and Stanford among the top schools that offered their graduates good value for the substantial debt they incurred while law students.SoFi rated the schools after examining salary and debt records of more than 60,000 people who applied to refinance their student loans with the San Francisco company between 2014 and 2016.A University of Texas law graduate, for example, had an average debt of $105,254 but three years after graduation earned an average $147,444, or 1.4 times the debt incurred. That is the same ratio that a Yale Law School graduate has, according to SoFi data. On average, graduates of Yale Law School, which is ranked the No. 1 law school nationally, have $123,793 in debt and earn a salary of $171,779, according to the SoFi report called “Return on Education (ROED) Law School Rankings.”The Ivy League school offers financial aid packages, and about 60 percent of the law school’s students qualify for need-based scholarship grants, according to SoFi’s findings.Texas graduates have the advantage of low tuition costs, said Amanda Wood, SoFi’s director of business operations and strategy. The tuition is $34,000 a year, the second-lowest in-state tuition among the country’s top 20 ranked schools, according to the study. The Texas school has a national ranking of No. 15.Another Texas school, the University of Houston, had a similar salary-to-debt ratio, Ms. Wood noted. The average graduate from that school three years out had $100,160 in debt and earned an average $136,370.Over all, typical law student loan debt is estimated to be in the low to mid six digits for private law school students, and lower for those who attended public institutions. However, no one official figure covers all law schools.The SoFi study points out that graduates with well-paid jobs and good credit can typically refinance their student loans at a lower rate. However, refinancing with a private lender eliminates protections such as income-based repayment plans and loan forgiveness for those in public service jobs.For those seeking a great law school deal, the best may be Brigham Young University, where the average debt is $68,873 and graduates, many of whom stay and practice law in Utah, earn an average of $108,916. But not everyone can qualify. Tuition costs are exceptionally low for members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but non-Mormons pay double the $12,000 annual tuition, Ms. Wood said.At the opposite end of the spectrum, SoFi also listed the worst law schools for salary-to-debt ratio, including Florida Coastal School of Law, Charlotte School of Law and Arizona Summit Law School, all three of which are for-profit schools owned by Infilaw Holdings, in Naples, Fla. At two schools, students ran up more than $150,000 in student debt but earned, three years after graduation, slightly over $84,000. Only Arizona Summit, which was formerly known as Phoenix School of Law, had graduates with average annual earnings of slightly over $96,000 — but that came with debt exceeding $155,000.Infilaw did not respond to a request for comment.Other law schools that graduated newly minted lawyers who earned modest salaries but carried heavy debt loads — approximately 1.5 times as much as annual salary — included St. Thomas University, Appalachian School of Law, Thomas Jefferson School of Law and Elon University, SoFi found. Hefty debt means large portions of recent graduates’ paychecks go toward paying off student loans.Taking into account salary only, graduates of three prestigious law schools — Columbia University, Cornell University and New York University — earned average salaries above $175,000 three years after getting their degrees, according to SoFi’s data.Those salaries are “just one or two raises away from the Bureau of Labor Statistics’ best-paid lawyer salary of $187,200,” said Ms. Wood, who also noted that the top three schools are all in New York. That finding, she said, “reinforces the idea that location matters when it comes to earning potential.”
ORLANDO, Fla. — U.S.A. Football, the national governing body for amateur football, intends to introduce a drastically altered youth football game in response to declining participation and increasing public belief that the game is not safe for children to play.The organization has created a new format that brings the game closer to flag football and tries to avoid much of the violence in the current version. Among the rule changes: Each team will have six to nine players on the field, instead of 11; the field will be far smaller; kickoffs and punts will be eliminated; and players will start each play in a crouching position instead of in a three-point stance.“The issue is participation has dropped, and there’s concern among parents about when is the right age to start playing tackle, if at all,” said Mark Murphy, the president of the Green Bay Packers and a board member at U.S.A. Football.“There are, legitimately, concerns among parents about allowing their kids to play tackle football at a young age,” Mr. Murphy continued, “so they can look at this and say they’ll be more comfortable that it is a safer alternative.”Worries about the future of youth football are mounting as evidence of long-term cognitive dangers of playing the game grows.For years, the sport’s top officials have played down the science and insisted that tackle football could be played safely. Neurologists have found a degenerative brain disease, chronic traumatic encephalopathy, in an alarming number of former football players, and last year the N.F.L.’s top health and safety officer acknowledged for the first time the link between the disease and brain trauma sustained on the field.“This is the future of the game,” Scott Hallenbeck, the executive director of U.S.A. Football, said in an interview at the organization’s annual convention here last weekend. “All of this is all about how do we do a better job, and a smarter job around the development of athletes and coaches in the game of football.”U.S.A. Football has for years promoted a program called Heads Up Football to youth and high school coaches to combat safety concerns and declining participation. But research, endorsed by the organization, that showed Heads Up Football helped reduce concussions and other injuries proved to be misguided, a review by The New York Times found.The group has also promoted flag football, which has no tackling, with success. Participation in the game, which is typically played by younger athletes, grew 8.7 percent last year, Mr. Hallenbeck said.Even so, participation in tackle football by boys ages 6 to 12 has fallen by nearly 20 percent since 2009, though it rose 1.2 percent, to 1.23 million, in 2015, according to the Sports and Fitness Industry Association. Schools in several states — including Maine, Missouri and New Jersey — have shut their tackle football programs because of safety concerns and a shortage of players.The participation declines in tackle football are worrisome not just to youth football organizations like Pop Warner, but to the N.F.L., which sees youth football as a way to develop future fans and pro players. The N.F.L. has given U.S.A. Football tens of millions of dollars to promote the youth game, and the league’s presence was felt at the convention, which was held just a few miles from where the Pro Bowl was played.U.S.A. Football began exploring new ways to play the game in 2015. Unlike sports like baseball — which has a progression of levels, from T-ball up, suited to each age group — football had few alternatives to the flag and tackle versions. The new format, called modified tackle, is a way to give nervous parents an alternative. Coaches would also rotate players in different positions during games to give everyone a chance to carry the ball and avoid mismatches between large and small kids.The first modified tackle scrimmages were held in September with youth teams in Cleveland. Chuck Kyle, the football coach at St. Ignatius High School, who ran the scrimmages, said that though much more work was needed to determine if this version of the game was safer, the initial evidence was positive.“By bringing the field in, first of all, I think there’s better form tackling because less speed, less momentum, more one-on-one tackling,” Mr. Kyle said. “I didn’t see as many pileups, because there’s seven people” on a side, not 11.U.S.A. Football is hoping that a few teams and leagues in different parts of the country test the game more formally this year. A national rollout of the game is still several years away.Still, Mr. Hallenbeck made sure to introduce the concept of modified tackle to the more than 1,000 high school coaches and administrators assembled here. He said that youth football was at a “critical crossroads” and that the football community, which faces “adversity,” must work together to create a safer game with more alternatives for children and their parents.Other keynote speakers, including former N.F.L. coaches, players and team presidents, echoed Mr. Hallenbeck’s call to arms at the three-day event, saying the sport is under threat.“There are a lot of geniuses out there that are diminishing football right now,” said Jon Gruden, a former coach of the Oakland Raiders and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, who now works as an analyst for ESPN. “There are a lot of geniuses that are trying to damage the game, and ruin the game. Do you feel it? There are a lot of geniuses that want to eliminate all sports, including recess.”“Not on my watch, and clap your hands if you’re with me on that,” he added, to loud applause.Many attendees at the conference said they were receptive to the new format if it helped keep children participating and allayed parents’ concerns.“The games are getting a lot faster and kids are getting bigger, so they need to modify the game so parents feel it’s safe,” said Paul Macklin II, who helps run recreation programs in Norfolk, Va. “We have to come up with new ideas.”Medical experts and safe sports advocates were more skeptical. The brains of children grow at incredible rates, and repeated jarring blows to the head can stunt that growth, doctors say. While concussions are a concern, the larger danger to an athlete’s long-term cognitive health is the repeated sub-concussive blows like the ones that linemen absorb on nearly every play from scrimmage.Several studies have shown that college and professional players who began playing tackle football as young boys have a greater risk of developing memory and thinking problems later in life than athletes who took up the game after they turned 12. Starting to play tackle football as teenagers is more prudent, doctors say.“The earlier they started playing, the worse their brains fared later on,” said Dr. Robert Stern, the director of clinical research at the Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy Center at the Boston University School of Medicine.“To me, it makes sense we would want to do everything we can to reduce or eliminate purposeful hits to the brain,” Dr. Stern added. “But if the culprit is the repetitive hits to the brain, that’s the starting point for making changes.”Terry O’Neil, the founder of Practice Like Pros, a group that advocates reducing collisions in youth football, was more direct.“If there’s tackling, then it doesn’t matter if it’s seven on seven or one on one,” he said. “There’s going to be contact with the other players and the ground. With the science available now, we find it surprising anyone would be promoting youth tackle football in any format.”Developing modified tackle, he added, is a way for U.S.A. Football “to suggest that boys of this age are not able to play the game as it was designed.” The solution, he said, is for boys to play flag football through junior high school.Whatever the merits of modified tackle, the biggest obstacle may be hidebound football coaches and the parents who cling to the notion that football is football only if it is played on a 100-yard field by 22 children at a time.“We’d get a rebellion if we tried this because so many people don’t want to be told what to do,” said Jon Butler, the executive director of Pop Warner, the largest youth football organization in the country. Introducing modified tackle football “is going to be by trial and error.”
If you had to give the nation’s nursing homes a letter grade for quality, what would it be?Experts tend to sigh at this question and point out, correctly, that the country’s 15,600 facilities are vastly different — rural and urban, for-profit and nonprofit and government-run, home to the reasonably healthy and the extremely sick, high-quality operations and appalling ones. Assigning grades can be folly.But when prodded, they come up with decidedly middling assessments. Dr. Cheryl Phillips, head of public policy for LeadingAge, which represents 2,200 nonprofit nursing homes: C-minus.Nicholas Castle, a health policy researcher at the University of Pittsburgh: B-minus.Robyn Grant, public policy director at the National Consumer Voice for Quality Long-Term Care, a leading advocacy group: No grade. “Far too many have a long way to go to give residents the quality of care and quality of life they deserve.”I asked because the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services last fall issued a broad revision of nursing home regulations; the first batch took effect in late November, with the rest to be phased in this year and in 2019.“These are the first comprehensive updates to long-term care requirements since 1991,” said Dr. Kate Goodrich, the centers’ chief medical officer. They emerged from a four-year process involving many meetings and almost 10,000 comments from interested parties.Will the new requirements help improve care for the country’s 1.4 million nursing home residents — perhaps raise the report card grade to a solid B? “From our perspective, it’s a mixed bag,” Ms. Grant said.Residents and families will most likely appreciate some of these changes once they are in place. But the regulations disappointed nursing associations and many advocates by declining to set minimum staffing standards. And one key provision has already been stopped in its tracks by a lawsuit.A look at some particulars:■ The regulations strengthen residents’ control over certain decisions important to their daily lives. For example, the rules allow people to receive any visitor they choose (not just relatives) whenever they choose, without restricted hours, as long as visitors don’t disturb other residents.Just having family members around in the evening, when homes have fewer staff members, might improve attention and care, Dr. Castle pointed out.The requirements also allow residents to choose their roommates when both parties agree, making it easier for friends, siblings or same-sex couples to share living quarters. And they require facilities to make meals and snacks available when residents want to eat, not only at predetermined mealtimes.“Over all, we are really pleased with the focus on person-centered care, trying to transform the nursing home environment,” Dr. Phillips said.■ For the first time, nursing homes must take “reasonable care” of residents’ personal belongings and can’t shrug off responsibility for theft or loss by requiring residents to sign waivers. “That’s been a big complaint,” Ms. Grant said.Moving into a nursing home already requires giving up so many possessions that “losing something can be devastating” — especially when eyeglasses, hearing aids or dentures go missing.■ The regulations call for expanded staff training in preventing elder abuse and in caring for patients with dementia. Dr. Phillips calls the latter critically important; most residents have moderate or severe dementia, Medicare statistics show. The rule also requires a nursing home to designate an infection-control officer and to establish a system to monitor antibiotic use.■ Long-term-care ombudsmen report frequent complaints of “dumping”: A nursing home sends a resident, often someone whose dementia causes problematic behavior, to a hospital. Then, after she is discharged, the home won’t readmit her. “Once they’re out the door, it’s a lot easier to just evict someone,” Ms. Grant said.The existing regulations provide a lot of protection against being bounced from nursing homes; the new rule extends those protections to someone who’s been hospitalized but intends to return. “That resident has all the rights that go with discharge and can appeal the decision.” Nor can the facility transfer the resident while she is appealing. The rule toughens other kinds of grievance procedures as well.But one major change, a ban on the binding arbitration agreements that nursing homes frequently require at admission — before any dispute arises — has already stalled.The American Health Care Association, which represents most for-profit nursing homes — 70 percent of nursing homes in the United States are for-profit — filed suit to stop the change. In November, a federal court in Mississippi granted a preliminary injunction.Giving residents and families the right to take nursing homes to court could bring far-reaching results, Ms. Grant said. Arbitration proceedings typically remain confidential, and monetary awards can be modest.“It’s all behind closed doors,” she said. “When you have a public lawsuit, that’s an amount of money that gets attention from owners and operators and serves as a deterrent” to substandard care.Medicare has appealed, but a final court disposition could be months or years away. “This may be one area where C.M.S. says, ‘We tried it and it didn’t work,’” Dr. Phillips said. LeadingAge takes the position that arbitration should be optional but not outlawed.The government also declined to incorporate specific staff ratios or minimum hours of care in the new regulations, or to require nursing homes to have registered nurses on site around the clock. (Current rules require R.N.s only for eight hours.)Instead, homes must develop assessments of their resources and residents’ needs and hire accordingly. Federal regulators feared that some homes, particularly in rural areas, might find higher staff requirements unnecessary and impossible to reach, and close down rather than face violations and fines.Advocates are fuming, however, because better staffing has been shown to improve quality of care. Without standards, “it’s completely left to the nursing homes, and they’re not going to change because there’s no incentive to,” said Charlene Harrington, a longtime nursing home researcher at the University of California, San Francisco.“They can cut staff, keep their wages low and pocket the profits,” she said.As with any regulation, much depends on implementation and enforcement. Medicare will not issue guidance — the details on exactly how nursing homes must comply — until summer.And some obvious upgrades lie beyond the scope of such rules, Dr. Castle pointed out. Paying nursing aides more helps to reduce staff turnover, he said, as does “consistent assignment” — having aides care for and develop relationships with the same patients each day.“If you really want to improve nursing homes, you should pay more for Medicaid,” Dr. Castle added. The federal and state program underwrites most long-stay nursing home care, and it is chronically underfunded. “What do you do with $98 a day to care for a resident?”But Washington doesn’t seem to be in a let’s-pay-more mood. In fact, “we’re wondering and worrying whether these new regulations will be repealed” by the Republican Congress, Ms. Grant said.For now, though, they are the law. Families and residents who want to know more can wade through hundreds of pages in the Federal Register (I don’t recommend it) or turn to summaries compiled by consumer groups.Better yet, they can contact local or state long-term-care ombudsmen to learn how the changes apply to them. Consumer Voice provides a locator at theconsumervoice.org.
WASHINGTON — Former President Barack Obama spoke out on Monday against President Trump’s efforts to seal the United States borders against people from seven predominantly Muslim countries, siding with protesters around the country outraged at Mr. Trump’s crackdown on immigration.“President Obama is heartened by the level of engagement taking place in communities around the country,” said Kevin Lewis, a spokesman for the former president, in a statement issued after a weekend of protests against Mr. Trump’s executive order. “Citizens exercising their constitutional right to assemble, organize and have their voices heard by their elected officials is exactly what we expect to see when American values are at stake.”Mr. Obama, the statement added, “fundamentally disagrees with the notion of discriminating against individuals because of their faith or religion.”The statement was muted compared to the expressions of vitriol against Mr. Trump’s order from other Democrats and humanitarian activists. But its timing — only 10 days after Mr. Obama left office vowing to give Mr. Trump time to succeed in the presidency before questioning his policies — indicated that Mr. Obama felt compelled to speak out swiftly against what he sees as a misguided start to a new administration.It came on the same day that Sally Q. Yates, the acting attorney general and a holdover from Mr. Obama’s team, said she would not defend the immigration order in court. And it followed a weekend during which former top Obama administration officials put aside plans to unplug from the day-to-day policy debates that consume Washington to recharge after a whirlwind final few months in power, and instead joined protests in the streets or spoke out against Mr. Trump’s policies.“My goal here was to take it easy and do my running and my yoga and make chicken soup, but the order is so sweeping, it’s so unnecessary and it made me so angry, that I had to do something,” said Amy Pope, a former homeland security adviser to Mr. Obama who wrote an op-ed published by CNN on Monday condemning the action. She also signed a letter from more than 100 former national security officials, many but not all of them Democrats, to the Trump administration expressing “deep concern” about the ban.Mr. Obama’s statement and the articles and letters from his former top advisers were a break with past custom. Outgoing presidents and their staffs usually grant an informal grace period of sorts to a new administration, staying quiet publicly about policy differences.Days before leaving the White House, Mr. Obama told reporters that he would only speak out if he felt the nation’s ideals were under threat.“I want to be quiet a little bit and not hear myself talk so darn much,” he said at his final news conference on Jan. 18. “But there’s a difference between that normal functioning of politics and certain issues or certain moments where I think our core values may be at stake. I put in that category, if I saw systematic discrimination being ratified in some fashion.”Mr. Obama was still on vacation with his wife in Palm Springs, Calif., on Monday and was not available for an interview, Mr. Lewis said. But after a weekend of watching chaos at airports as green card holders and many others were detained, aides said the former president felt it was vital to express his views.Mr. Obama was also determined, they added, to push back against the argument — made by Mr. Trump’s advisers as they defended the order — that it had been Mr. Obama’s idea to bar entrants from certain predominantly Muslim countries.Mr. Obama’s comments came with a reminder that he had in the past spoken out against the kind of tactics Mr. Trump employed on Friday, when he ordered a temporary halt to admitting people from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Syria, Somalia, Sudan or Yemen and a freeze on the United States refugee program, which he said should give priority to Christians in the future.Along with Mr. Obama’s statement, Mr. Lewis appended a section of remarks the former president delivered in November 2015 at a summit in Antalya, Turkey, when he spoke out against a Muslim ban that Mr. Trump, then a candidate for president, had proposed.“When I hear folks say that, well, maybe we should just admit the Christians but not the Muslims; when I hear political leaders suggesting that there would be a religious test for which a person who’s fleeing from a war-torn country is admitted, when some of those folks themselves come from families who benefited from protection when they were fleeing political persecution — that’s shameful,” Mr. Obama said then. “That’s not American. That’s not who we are. We don’t have religious tests to our compassion.”Mr. Trump and his aides have contended that the immigration order is not a Muslim ban because it does not affect several predominantly Muslim countries. They have also argued that it is similar to actions Mr. Obama took, including a six-month ban on refugees from Iraq he instituted in 2011, and a requirement his administration added in 2015 that travelers from the same seven countries have visas for entering the United States.But the 2011 action, which only affected one country, was in response to specific threat information about Iraqis seeking to use the refugee program to enter the United States and carry out terrorist acts. And while it tightened visa requirements for people entering from the seven countries, the Obama administration never sought to bar them.
WASHINGTON — The White House said on Monday that President Trump would leave in place a 2014 Obama administration order that created new workplace protections for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people.In a statement issued in response to growing questions about whether Mr. Trump would reverse the Obama order, the White House said the president was proud to embrace gay rights.“President Trump continues to be respectful and supportive of L.G.B.T.Q. rights, just as he was throughout the election,” the statement said. “The president is proud to have been the first ever G.O.P. nominee to mention the L.G.B.T.Q. community in his nomination acceptance speech, pledging then to protect the community from violence and oppression.”The decision to keep the order, the statement added, was Mr. Trump’s. It uses stronger language than any Republican president has before in favor of equal legal protections for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people, though that is not likely to quiet Mr. Trump’s critics on the left.The move could also anger conservatives who had hoped a Republican president would end some socially liberal policies.While Mr. Trump remains opposed to the right of same-sex couples to marry, he has been more open to it than many in his party. But there could be another political cost to his decision: On the eve of the announcement of his pick to fill the vacant seat on the Supreme Court, it could reopen the divisive debate over same-sex marriage and transgender rights, and subject his nominee to more scrutiny over his or her views on those issues.The Obama order banned companies that do federal work from discriminating against gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender employees. It was the first time the government explicitly protected federal workers from discrimination based on gender identity.Leaving those protections, of course, does not preclude another executive order that would roll back gay rights in other areas. Mr. Trump could, for example, still enshrine a religious freedom provision in federal policy.Gay rights advocates seemed unimpressed. Chad Griffin, president of the Human Rights Campaign, said Mr. Trump was setting a low bar by claiming credit for not overturning the actions of his predecessor.“L.G.B.T.Q. refugees, immigrants, Muslims and women are scared today, and with good reason,” Mr. Griffin said. “Donald Trump has done nothing but undermine equality since he set foot in the White House.”
Fans of the website Great Value Colleges might have been puzzled when John Ellison, the University of Chicago dean of students, wrote in a news-making letter to incoming freshmen that the university does not condone safe spaces.Paradoxically, the university ranks No. 1 on the website’s 2016 ranking of “20 Great Value Colleges With Safe Spaces.”But where Dr. Ellison meant intellectual refuges “where individuals can retreat from ideas and perspectives at odds with their own,” Great Value Colleges was assessing Chicago’s LGBTQ Safe Space, a program that creates “welcoming physical spaces” for gay students.A disconnect? “Safe space” may be the rallying cry of 2016, but the phrase was popularized in the 1960s, when feminist groups applied it to havens for consciousness-raising discourse. For the gay community, it’s where the marginalized can feel secure, said Shane Windmeyer, executive director of Campus Pride, a nonprofit tasked with nurturing a safe environment for LGBTQ students. Campus Pride works with some 1,400 campuses with safe spaces, or ally zones.Want to set up a safe space? Identify your space with a sticker or other signage, and perhaps take the Campus Pride safe space certification course (among requirements: Name the date of National Coming Out Day and define “gender nonbinary” and “gender neutral”).As for the University of Chicago, Sean Coyne, a Ph.D. candidate and LGBTQ Safe Space user, says, “We’re still very safe here.”
On a snowy Monday morning in the nation’s capital, Ollie the bobcat apparently just needed some space.The Smithsonian’s National Zoo in Washington announced that Ollie, a 6-year-old, 25-pound female cat, had gone missing sometime between 7:30 a.m., when handlers check in on the enclosure she shares with two male bobcats, and feeding time at 10:40 a.m.“She’s very standoffish,” Craig Saffoe, the zoo’s curator of great cats, said of Ollie at an afternoon news conference, calling her “not super friendly.” He added: “It would be extremely easy on us if she were a cat who would come when called, but that’s not who this individual is.”Brandie Smith, the National Zoo’s associate director of animal care, said zookeepers believed the bobcat escaped through a small hole in the mesh fence intended to keep her in. When the animal did not turn up during a search of the area around the bobcat enclosure, the zoo changed tactics, Ms. Smith said, creating a larger perimeter so as not to scare the animal away.“We very much believe she will want to come back to her exhibit,” she said. “There’s shelter, there’s food, there’s warmth.”But Mr. Saffoe stressed that while Ollie is probably nearby, she is a “capable hunter” and the D.C. area is a natural habitat for bobcats. (In fact, a feline believed to be a bobcat was spotted in a residential neighborhood on Sunday in nearby Fairfax County, Va., The Washington Post reported.)“Cats are survivors,” Mr. Saffoe said. “I’d be lying to you if I said we were definitely going to get her back.”Only a small section of the zoo was closed on Monday after the escape, the representatives said, and the lion and tiger circle remained open to visitors.Ollie is not believed to be a threat to humans — she should be treated like a stray dog, the zoo representatives said — but she is a carnivore, meaning small birds, cats or dogs could be at risk. The National Zoo has set up a hotline at (202) 633-7362 for anyone with information on Ollie’s whereabouts.She is not alone among animal escapees in the area. In 2013, a red panda named Rusty briefly got free before being captured on the streets of the Adams Morgan neighborhood after a few hours. Proving more elusive is yet another red panda, Sunny, from the Virginia Zoo in Norfolk, who was last seen on the night of Jan. 23 and is now thought to have possibly escaped the zoo altogether.The last animal to go missing at the National Zoo, according to the director of communications, Pamela Baker-Masson, was a male agouti, a cat-size rodent, named Macadamia. He escaped for only half-an-hour before being herded home.
BEAVER, Alaska — In a season of short days and long nights, life in this village just below the Arctic Circle hugs tightly around the places of light and warmth, in living rooms by roaring wood stoves or the school gym where a basketball can always be found. About 60 people live here, though the number fluctuates as families move away for a time and then come back — or do not.Insecurity about the future is a constant in remote places like this. In earlier days, residents had to focus on personal survival, getting their families through the hard bite of winter with enough food and fuel. Now, people are more connected to the broader world through jobs and technology, but villages themselves have no such certainty — they can vanish as people drift away, or flee for the opportunity and allure of Anchorage, Fairbanks or points beyond.Xavier Sanford’s feet do not yet even reach the floor at his desk. But last fall, Xavier, who is 5 and deeply fond of dinosaurs, helped save his school just by showing up. School enrollment — referred to, often with dread, as the October count — hangs heavy over Beaver and other rural schools. If the student population drops below 10, Alaska pulls the plug on funding, which can bring the death of a school, and a community.Beaver started the school year strong with 14 students, including Xavier, the only kindergartner. But by late fall, after funding was appropriated for the year, enrollment slipped to nine after a family got on a plane and flew off to live somewhere else. Reinforcements, in the form of two kindergartners ready to start next fall, including Alaina Pitka, 5, are easing fears, for now at least, of a school shutdown.A lightning-fast game of pan — think of it as caffeinated rummy with nine decks of cards — is an evening ritual in a cozy, photo-lined log cabin warmed by a crackling wood stove. As the family members and friends bantered, bluffed and placed bets, they also poked fun at the host’s love of ’70s classic rock, which grooved out a mellow arc in the background.Teisha Wiehl, 23, moved to Beaver in November from Fairbanks with her husband, Clinton — who is from here — and their daughter, Lauren, 3. “I was tired of cars and crowds,” Ms. Wiehl said.Old and new rub shoulders. Packages from Amazon.com and other retailers arrive from Fairbanks on the afternoon flight, a little propeller-driven plane that serves the community. Some residents even get meat that way, from shops in Fairbanks, to the disdain of traditionalists who fill their freezers with moose and bear that they skin and butcher themselves, and salmon from the Yukon River, frozen white this time of year on the village’s front doorstep.Newer homes, looking buttoned up and tidy, sit alongside abandoned cabins with yawning front doors and snow-dusted floors, empty kerosene lamps in some places still hanging from hooks.Layered legacies of land ownership complicate things. The federal Bureau of Indian Affairs once ran the old, now-abandoned school, which has asbestos insulation and an environmental remediation headache no one wants to pay for. So the building molders where it stands. Recent state budget troubles have added another pinch, as lawmakers at the Capitol in Juneau cut programs at a time of falling oil-tax revenues.Rhonda Pitka, the chief of the village, and the mother of Alaina, who is heading for kindergarten next fall, sought for years to get title to a strip of land owned by the Episcopal Church, with the goal of installing a biomass generator to heat the community buildings and the new school. Ms. Pitka finally got the land, but then state money to help with renewable energy projects disappeared in a cloud of red ink.The fates and fortunes of native people all across North America were shaped by government policies, economics and demographic tides — but also, and perhaps most profoundly, by physical space.In the lower 48 states, tribes were forced onto reservations as a tide of settlers took tribal land for farms, ranches or mines. Up here, by contrast, where Native Alaskans are connected by language and heritage into vast ethnic groups, people clustered onto what are essentially islands on a still mostly empty landscape — tiny dots of humanity off the road system in a sea of tundra and forest. Many residents of Beaver, which sits at the border of Gwich’in and Koyukon regions, have ancestors on both sides of the line.Ai Adams was born and raised in Tokyo, the daughter of a theatrical costume designer, and fell in love with the mystique of Alaska from books she read as a child. A visit to Beaver about a decade ago with a tour group, and then later her marriage to a local resident, Cliff Adams, made the dream reality. “Life is just once,” she said, her Japanese accent still strong.She now runs her own fur-trapping lines, hunts and fishes with her husband, and makes traditional clothing that keeps her warm on the coldest days, she said, out gathering wood in winter in the seemingly endless, silent forest that begins at the village edge. Of city life and Japan, she said, she misses almost nothing.Lyla Evans, 4, pointed excitedly out the window toward a house under construction next door to hers — the first new dwelling in Beaver in years. “We’re going to move over there soon!” she shouted.Her parents, Nellie and Mike Evans — she works at the school as a cook; he’s a laid-off oil field worker — both came from families scarred by alcohol, they said, raised by foster families after their biological parents were unable to care for them. They have vowed something better for their daughter, who will start kindergarten next fall. “We’ve both had tough lives, but we didn’t want our daughter to grow up like that,” Ms. Evans said.Lyla was more urgent about her reasons for wanting to move soon, and abandon the drafty old fur trapper’s cabin they have been living in, with hooks still on the beams from which hides once hung. “My house has mice,” she said with a deep frown.Desperation and hope went hand in hand in Beaver’s early days during the gold rush of the early 1900s as a supply outpost for miners in the Chandalar River mining district north of the Yukon.Frank Yasuda, a Japanese-born Alaskan who had been living in the northwest outpost of Barrow, arrived here in the early 20th century after leading a party across more than 400 miles of wilderness with his wife, Nevelo. Barrow was in crisis from disease and starvation, as the whales on which residents depended for food were disappearing.The Yasudas’ feat of survival and determination in getting here, and then staying to build and anchor Beaver into the 20th century, became legend. Ms. Yasuda even lived long enough to see Alaska become a state in 1959. Their cabin still stands.When skies turn clear at this time of year, the temperature can plummet to 50 degrees below zero or lower, crossing what residents described as a kind of red line of danger. Like deep-sea divers with the bends, people under hypothermia-induced confusion can feel hot, even as they are freezing, so they do exactly the wrong thing and shed clothes. A breath unfiltered by a face mask can freeze the lungs. A wet boot becomes an iron cage in seconds that cannot be removed without fire or shelter. “All it takes is one little mistake,” said Mr. Adams, Ai Adams’s husband.Carmen Russo had given up on teaching. At 62, she had seen enough and had enough, she said, in remote villages where dysfunction, alcoholism and despair can cast a shadow of ruin. An 11-year-old in her last school committed suicide on the playground.But then this year she was talked into a temporary stint in Beaver — one last stint before retirement, she told herself — and it all changed. She fell in love with the students, and sensed a more supportive network of parents. Retirement has now been put aside. She recently asked the district to let her stay on permanently.“It works here,” said Ms. Russo, who was born and raised in Alaska. “It reminds me of home.”With housing in Beaver so tight, though, there’s a price: She has been living with her two dogs and cat in an unused classroom.
BEIRUT, Lebanon — There was once a nice sea view at the Al Jazira beach club, and umbrellas of palm fronds sticking from the sand are reminders of nicer days. Nowadays, the place is surrounded by an ever-growing garbage dump.“It used to be a beach,” said Hassan, a Syrian man who works as a caretaker at the club and insisted on being identified only by his first name because of a lawsuit concerning the landfill. “There was sea. There were rocks. I used to fish.”Just up the shoreline, Mohammed Jradi, who has been fishing the waters of the Mediterranean off Beirut for 20 years, said the trash had driven even the fish away.“All over the world, they have solutions for this, but not here,” he said.There is no end, it seems, to Lebanon’s trash crisis, a potent symbol of the dysfunctional, sect-based politics that define this tiny country — just half the size of Vermont, the journalist and historian David Hirst has noted. When trash piles built up across this city two years ago, enveloping Beirut in a nasty stench, they spawned a protest movement, called “You Stink,” against the political class.Now, the latest episode of the crisis has become a uniquely Lebanese story, entwining bird migration, civil aviation, mysterious gunmen and the long story of Lebanon’s struggle to become a functioning state that can at least take care of its trash, more than 25 years after emerging from a long civil war.Last year, as a Band-Aid solution to the garbage crisis, the municipality opened the Costa Brava landfill here on the shoreline, not far from Beirut’s Rafic Hariri International Airport. And so for many visitors to Beirut, a city whose shabby-chic architecture, great cuisine and French colonial influences are otherwise enchanting, the first thing to greet them was a strong whiff of garbage.The landfill also attracted birds — lots of them — not just the sea gulls that normally fly around the coast, but others on migratory patterns from Europe and North Africa. “In other words,” wrote one local blogger, “a giant free Lebanese restaurant for birds.”More seriously, this posed a problem to civil aviation. When an airliner with Lebanon’s Middle East Airlines hit a bird this month — an episode that recalled Capt. Chesley Sullenberger’s crash landing in the Hudson River eight years ago after hitting a flock of birds — Lebanon’s trash problem suddenly became a matter of aviation safety.Almost immediately, gunmen showed up on the coast line, apparently deployed by the government to shoot the birds out of the sky, raising the ire of environmental activists, not to mention the fishermen.“I used to see sea gulls everywhere,” Mr. Jradi said. “But today there are none. They were shot down.”He added: “Of course, I am missing them. They were entertainment for us. For me, it was an entertaining scene, watching them fly.”Activists have said that the killing of the birds was in violation of the Barcelona Convention, which aims to protect wildlife in coastal regions of the Mediterranean, and that the government could have found other solutions, like using tranquilizer guns on the birds.“Lebanon is an important bird area,” said Paul Abi Rached, a prominent Lebanese environmental activist, noting that millions of birds from Europe and North Africa pass through Lebanon each year on migratory patterns.“So what you are killing are not Lebanese birds,” he said. “They are the birds of Europe. That is the catastrophe.”The chairman of Middle East Airlines, Lebanon’s national carrier, told an interviewer with the TV channel MTV this month that the safety of airline passengers was more important than the lives of birds, saying that the hunters would continue their work as needed.The garbage problem has long been a symbol of a failure of Lebanese politics, one that activists say has its roots in the time shortly after the country’s civil war, which ended in 1990. Soon after the war ended, the government set up a trash collection company, called Sukleen, that was connected to political parties and over the years became a vehicle for corruption, say activists. This thwarted the possibility of other solutions, like recycling, and in a country as small as Lebanon it has been hard to find enough space for landfills.“Lebanon is a very densely populated place,” said Habib Battah, the founder of the news website Beirut Report, who has written about the Costa Brava landfill. “Other countries have big, open spaces, but we don’t have that.”He said that in the long term, recycling was the answer, because when trying to find new places for trash dumps, “wherever you go in Lebanon there is a village nearby.”Mr. Battah said the problems with garbage went back to the decision at the end of the war to privatize trash collection. He said that Lebanon offered a lesson to other postwar societies on the dangers of rushing into privatization too fast, and that he often wished he could bring free-market libertarians to Lebanon for a field trip to see what can happen in the absence of strong government regulations.“Basically, when you do that, people in power get richer,” he said.Public services across the board, not just trash collection, have long suffered in Lebanon, he said, forcing political leaders to confront a difficult question: “What do you fix first? The water? The garbage? The internet?”
We all know a new era dawns in Washington in approximately 12 days, but why should Hollywood wait? Kicking off the E! red carpet show at the 74th Annual Golden Globes on Sunday night, Ryan Seacrest served notice to all that as far as awards season goes, change starts now.“‘Who are you wearing?’ That’s so done,” he said, not long before admitting he was, as it happened, wearing a chocolate-brown tuxedo from his Ryan Seacrest Distinction collection.Conflict of interest issues aside, it was a provocative statement, even in a time when practically every day brings a new provocative statement over the Twitter superhighway.Could it be true? Would 2017 usher in a time when actresses (and actors) did not have to name-check their clothes as part of the price of entry?Dream on. The fashion/film complex is alive and well and serving its prime purpose: marketing a moment of fantasy and escape. Kerry Washington did her job by not only introducing her gold-lace-and-rhinestone dress as by Dolce & Gabbana but by announcing that it was their special couture line and had never appeared on a red carpet before. Never, in other words, been seen by the general public’s eyes. Sprinkle a little of that made-to-order diamond dust on all of us.She wasn’t the only one who could. Ruth Negga also modeled custom-made gold: this time sequins, this time with a futuristic T-shirt cool, this time by Nicolas Ghesquière for Louis Vuitton. (It never hurts to send a subliminal message by modeling yourself after a statuette, perhaps the reason it was something of a trend.) When Lily Collins appeared in full fairy-princess pink beaded Zuhair Murad, her oversize bun like a nest just made for some twittering Disney canaries to land in, it was clear as far as fashion went we were in, well, La La Land.There were trains, on Winona Ryder’s strapless black Viktor & Rolf ball gown and Claire Foy’s Titania dress. Pink was a dominant color, as seen on Felicity Jones, doing a kind of sexy Jane Eyre impersonation in trompe l’oeil Gucci, and Carrie Underwood, in a woman-as-rose top; so was yellow (Natalie Portman’s maternity Prada, ’60s-inspired and very Jackie); and yet more gold on Naomie Harris in an Armani column and Sarah Paulson in Marc Jacobs.Mandy Moore had a full-length chiffon cape attached to the back of her plunging Naeem Khan gown, the better to do some superhero billowing with a twirl. And if Nicole Kidman’s Alexander McQueen off-the-shoulder, puff-sleeved, silver-splashed slip dress was a bit of a medieval shipwreck, and Drew Barrymore’s Monique Lhuillier suggested she was about to transform into a superglamorous sea gull, Emma Stone’s gossamer-light blush-pink Valentino covered in stars hinted she could twinkle like a constellation all on her own.And so it went. Sarah Jessica Parker swept by in a cold-shoulder white Vera Wang wedding-ish dress (not really, presumably). Ye olde Hollywood brigade was best represented by Brie Larson in full Veronica Lake waves and red strapless Rodarte gown with a beaded, corseted top; Blake Lively in molded black velvet Versace with gold chain mail halter-neck trim; and a host of liquid sequined columns on Viola Davis (one-shoulder, yellow, Michael Kors), Amy Adams (strapless, wine black, Tom Ford) and Kristen Bell (low-cut, long-sleeved black Jenny Packham).But then Evan Rachel Wood showed up in a razor-sharp custom Altuzarra tuxedo, referencing both David Bowie and Marlene Dietrich, because “I wanted to make sure young women and girls understood they didn’t always have to wear dresses; it’s not a requirement.” Not that she was trying to “protest dresses,” she said. Ditto, presumably, Octavia Spencer, powerful in another custom tux, and also talking about inspiring the next generation of girls. By the time Pharrell Williams appeared in a white Chanel jacket from the “2012 Paris-Bombay” women’s collection, the gender gauntlet was thrown.It made all the froth and familiar fantasia seem old-fashioned, and close to irrelevant. Sure there were few really silly looks (Janelle Monáe’s bubble-bath Armani and Olivia Culpo’s folkloric harvest-festival-on-a-skirt Zuhair Murad among them), but there weren’t a lot of memorable ones, either. Thandie Newton, in Monse, wore one of them.Off-the-shoulder, strict and long-sleeved, the white dress was unadorned — except for a hint of orange-gold flames licking their way up from hem to calf. Just in case anyone forgot the somewhat incendiary nature of this particular time.
Fifteen years after a failed attempt, New York City is getting all of its readers on the same page. On Wednesday the city will launch its One Book, One New York program, in which residents of all five boroughs will be urged to read the same book starting in early March.During February, New Yorkers will vote on which book to read, choosing from these five finalists: Ta-Nehisi Coates’s “Between the World and Me,” Paul Beatty’s “The Sellout,” Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s “Americanah,” Betty Smith’s “A Tree Grows in Brooklyn” and Junot Díaz’s “The Brief Wondrous Life of Oscar Wao.”Julie Menin, the commissioner of the Mayor’s Office of Media and Entertainment, the agency in charge of the program, said the city government wasn’t involved when a similar project ran aground in 2002. “The group couldn’t agree on a book, which is an only-in-New-York moment,” she said. “That became a cautionary tale, and we weren’t going to have the same problem.”In addition to speaking with officials in other cities that have pulled off the concept — including Chicago, Philadelphia and Seattle — New York officials asked an advisory panel made up of heads of public libraries, publishers, academics and others to suggest possible books. They winnowed that list down to five, and now the public will vote.The main voting mechanism will be online. In addition, readers will be able to vote on the interactive digital kiosks now in many subway stations.In a climate in which Staten Island has one independent bookstore and the Bronx has none, Ms. Menin said there was a “real economic development message in this, to promote independent bookstores. By having a shortlist of five books, it hopefully encourages people to read all five books before they vote. And to buy them. We want to be very supportive of these industries.”Lisa Lucas, the executive director of the National Book Foundation, expressed excitement about the One Book plan, but also said she hoped this was just one small step in more robust support for the publishing world. Ms. Menin’s office has only recently been charged with working with the publishing industry, and Ms. Lucas, who has previous experience in the world of film, praised the way that the agency has “changed the way film works in this city,” providing “incentives to keep business in the city, and to make sure businesses were thriving.”“That office has a really huge opportunity to think about how to encourage book stores to open; to think about tax incentives,” Ms. Lucas said. “Let’s get everybody reading, and then let’s get these businesses that help people do that flourishing. Anything that promotes reading is wonderful, and I just look forward to it as a steppingstone.”The city is launching the project in partnership with the website BuzzFeed, and five celebrity actors are taking part, each of them supporting a different book in promotional videos during the monthlong voting process. They are Larry Wilmore, Bebe Neuwirth, William H. Macy, Danielle Brooks and Giancarlo Esposito.In addition to an event planned in June at the main branch of the New York Public Library, at which the chosen book’s author will appear, there will be discussions and other associated programming in all five boroughs.Ms. Menin said the publishers whose books are on the ballot will donate a total of 4,000 copies of the finalists to more than 200 library branches.
It was the border wall that didn’t get built.In 2006, Boeing and a team of other companies won a federal contract to construct a wall to protect the United States border with Mexico, which stretches roughly 2,000 miles, from California to Texas.Five years and about $1 billion later, the government threw in the towel. Costs had ballooned, and the surveillance systems suffered from technical difficulties. Nearly all of the money had been spent on just 53 miles of the border in Arizona.The project was a loss for taxpayers. But for contractors, it was a big win.Today, as President Trump declares his intention to move forward with plans to build a barrier along the Mexican border, many of the details remain little more than a guessing game. Does Mr. Trump intend to build miles of concrete blocks, or fencing? Could parts of the wall be virtual, using technology like cameras and sensors to monitor the border, or be manned by drones? Will Mexico, as Mr. Trump has promised repeatedly, pay for it?There is no doubt that if the United States moves ahead with plans for an ambitious border wall — one of the biggest infrastructure projects in decades, perhaps running in the tens of billions of dollars — it will be a boon for contractors.An examination of failed efforts from the past highlights the potential gains for companies and potential pitfalls for taxpayers. Among the possible winners are construction firms, high-tech surveillance companies and cement manufacturers including, in what would be an ironic turn, one of Mexico’s largest materials companies.“There’s no question that, when the government spends money on a big project like this, companies are going to make a lot of money,” said Joe Hornyak, a partner with the law firm Holland and Knight, who specializes in government contracting law. “There’s no question about that.”In the past week, the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said Congress would move ahead with plans to build the wall, estimating that it would cost $12 billion to $15 billion.Researchers at M.I.T. said last year that a 1,000-mile, 50-foot-high steel-and-concrete wall would run taxpayers about $40 billion.Whether the number ends up on the low or high end of these ranges, it has already caught the eye of companies and investors eager to get a piece of the construction action, despite the myriad political and social battles that will surround it. The stocks of several construction companies and cement and concrete manufacturers jumped after the latest talk from Mr. Trump, as investors bet not only on a payday coming from a Mexican border wall but also from proposals floated for about $1 trillion in infrastructure projects.The White House did not immediately respond to an inquiry. In 2011, when the Department of Homeland Security canceled the fence project, it said the effort was ineffective and too costly.History would suggest that such efforts can have problematic results. Past attempts at a wall have favored companies with decades of government contracting experience. From 2007 to 2012, the federal government paid contractors more than $1.5 billion for border protection, according to a New York Times analysis of spending under the Department of Homeland Security’s Secure Border Initiative.The initiative, started in 2005, has been one of the most aggressive attempts to protect the border. An office at Customs and Border Protection was assigned to develop and construct a virtual and physical wall along the border with Mexico, to reduce illegal immigration.The company that won the biggest contract through that office was Boeing, which is best known for building aircraft but also performs a variety of tasks for the government, making it the nation’s second-largest federal contractor. Boeing was paid more than $20 billion in contracts during the last fiscal year.Boeing was not the only winner. The security company Wackenhut Corporation, now known as G4S Secure Solutions, received more than $119 million. I.B.M. won more than $56 million, and ManTech International, the technology company, received upward of $43 million.The project with Boeing, though, ran into snags almost immediately. Boeing and its team had built a complicated system consisting of sensors, radar and cameras mounted on towers to help border agents find people crossing into the country illegally. But the system worked inconsistently in some rough terrain.The project became the subject of multiple, and scathing, Government Accountability Office reports, some of which cited poor fiscal oversight. And after about $1 billion had been spent, the Obama administration canceled the project.In recent days, Boeing’s chief executive, Dennis Muilenburg, has been asked whether the company had discussed border security with the president, and whether it could harvest any information from its earlier project for the new wall. He said the company was not actively pursuing anything in that area but was open to working with the government. The company, otherwise, did not comment on its scrapped project.There have been other attempts at a barrier that also ran into financial trouble. As a result of the various projects, hundreds of miles of wall already exist along the border, though in a form — wire mesh, chain link, sheet piling, concrete vehicle barriers, post and rails and X-shaped beams — that Mr. Trump may not have envisioned.In 2005, one border project was harshly criticized by lawmakers after it was reported that cameras broke down frequently. In another, the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of the Inspector General reported in 2011 that officials had wasted $69 million in taxpayer dollars on an effort to build border walls, including the purchase of $44 million worth of extra steel that it did not need.In 2006, President George W. Bush signed the Secure Fence Act into law, requiring 700 miles of double-layered reinforced fencing to protect the border. The law was altered later to give the Department of Homeland Security more discretion to decide what kind of fencing was needed. Much of that wall consists of vehicle barriers, which do not stop people on foot.None of this history seems to have tempered Mr. Trump’s enthusiasm. But it comes at a time when a construction boom across much of the country has created a significant shortage of legal labor to build the wall, according to construction executives and others in Texas. Separately, a study released in 2012 estimated that half the construction workers in Texas were undocumented workers. Which means that many of the laborers on the wall could be illegal immigrants.“If this wall gets built in Texas, there is a high likelihood that a significant bit of the work force will be undocumented,” said Jose P. Garza, the executive director of the Workers Defense Project, which supports low-income workers.In another twist, money may flow to Mexicans or Mexican companies. Analysts say it is basically cost prohibitive to ship heavy rock or concrete more than 70 miles, or cement more than several hundred miles. That means manufacturers closest to the border may prove to be the most economical. That could be a big win for Cemex, Mexico’s largest cement manufacturer, which has a United States-based subsidiary that could bid for the project and several plants dotting the border, analysts note. The company could also potentially receive hard-to-trace subcontracts that even government agencies sometimes have a difficult time tracking.Also, the government already gives preferences to contractors that supply American-made construction materials when it awards such contracts, said Mr. Hornyak, but for certain large construction projects, the Trade Agreements Act waives requirements for materials made in countries that have entered into trade agreements with the United States.So, Mr. Hornyak added, the president would most likely need Congress to change the law if he wanted to dictate that agencies, for instance, buy only American-made cement.All of which means that, in an almost subversive inversion of the running debate over who will pay for what, the United States could ultimately wind up paying Mexican citizens and Mexican-owned businesses to construct the wall.An infrastructure build-out could also increase the cost of cement and other materials, say analysts. Currently, the United States is operating at 90 percent of its capacity levels, estimates Garik Shmois, an analyst at Longbow Research in Independence, Ohio. “We’re going to be effectively sold out by 2018, based on current projects,” Mr. Shmois said. “So any additional period of growth, such as an infrastructure cycle, will put upward pressure on prices.”That is good news for cement and materials companies with significant operations in the United States, including Vulcan Materials, Martin Marietta Materials and German-based HeidelbergCement Group, as well as Mexico’s Cemex and Grupo Cementos de Chihuahua.Companies that specialize in surveillance technology or even “virtual” barriers could also benefit. Elbit Systems of America, whose parent company is based in Israel, won a contract in 2014 with Customs and Border Protection to build a set of towers with radar and cameras covering 170 to 200 miles along the Arizona border. When the radar detects movement, cameras zoom in and send images to command centers.“When looking at the border, there is not a one-size-fits-all approach,” said Gordon Kesting, vice president for homeland security solutions for Elbit Systems of America. “But if you look at the costs associated with some of the approaches, they are quite different. There is a discussion to be had on the most effective and efficient use of taxpayer dollars.”
It was a spring afternoon in Istanbul, and I was talking with a woman in beige pumps and pearls who was angry about her government. It was taking the country in the wrong direction, she said, and she had come out with thousands of other people to protest. People from poor areas who supported the government were going against their self-interest. “They’re only being manipulated,” she said.Fast-forward 10 years to 2017. I am standing in a crowd of women wearing fleeces and sensible shoes in Washington, D.C. Everything feels oddly familiar. They were angry about the election and worried that it would take the country in the wrong direction. Many people who supported the new president had voted against their interests, they said.I have covered political divides in Turkey, Russia, Pakistan and Iraq. The pattern often goes like this: one country. Two tribes. Conflicting visions for how government should be run. There is lots of shouting. Sometimes there is shooting.Now those same forces are tearing at my own country.Increasingly, Americans live in alternate worlds, with different laws of gravity, languages and truths. Politics is raw, more about who you are than what you believe. The ground is shifting in unsettling ways. Even democracy feels fragile.President Trump has brought out these contrasts, like colors in a photograph developing in a darkroom.“I’m excited about change,” said Helene Lauzier, 37, who had driven to Washington from Fall River, Mass., and was standing with her mother, Helen Lauzier, 70, along the parade route on Inauguration Day. Both wore American flag scarves and hats. She wanted Fall River to get some of its old industry back — fabric and upholstery. The new industry is “medical, medical, medical,” she said. “But people who might not be qualified to work in medical, what can we do?”If that Friday felt like a wedding, that Saturday, the day of the women’s march, was a feisty funeral.Nan Nelson, 59, a retired geologist from Syracuse, was holding a sign that read “Women Geologists Rock.”“How can people be sucked in by this charlatan?” she said of Mr. Trump. “I have talked to people who are struggling to keep their homes. But I just don’t understand what they are expecting.”She added: “He doesn’t face reality. He just makes things up and thinks it’s true. That’s not my world.”I first moved abroad in 1995. I was 24, and like the country I came from, I was cocky. I visited ghostly Russian factory towns, where drunk and lonely people would lament the loss of their jobs, their identities and their place in the world. I would think: “Forget about the factory. Invent something. Get over it.”Fifteen years later, when I moved back to America, swaths of my own country were soaking in the same bitter mix. I became obsessed with these places. But their stories were hard to sell to editors. The grievances were not new, the result of years of economic decline and unmet expectations that left powerful resentment.In Russia and the United States, those forces eventually punched their way into politics and were harnessed by two skilled populists — Mr. Trump and Vladimir V. Putin. It was a revolt against elites, who were seen as having driven the country into the 2008 financial crisis without paying a price. Elites, who lived in isolated islands of economic opportunity and sneered at people who didn’t — for not having a passport, for liking Donald Trump.“The vibe I get when they talk to me is they know the world is round and the earth orbits the sun — they understand that — but they think that I think the earth is flat,” Larry Laughlin, a retiree from Ham Lake, Minn., who voted for Mr. Trump, said of liberals.Jonathan Haidt, a social psychologist at New York University, calls it the clash between globalists and nationalists. The globalists, who tend to be urban and college educated, want a world like the one described in John Lennon’s song “Imagine” — no religion, walls or borders dividing people. The nationalists see that as a vision of hell. They want to defend their culture and emphasize the bonds of nationhood — flag, Constitution, patriotism. They also want to limit immigration, an instinct that globalists are often quick to condemn as racist.It is one of the most profound fissures of the modern political era and has upended politics in Europe, too.“Global elites feel they have more in common with their friends in Paris or New York than with their own countrymen,” said Lars Tragardh, a historian at Ersta Skondal University College in Stockholm. “In their view of the world, the centrality of citizenship gets lost, and that is very threatening to the nationalists.”Mr. Trump’s slogan, America First, he said, “is not just about xenophobia, it’s about taking citizenship seriously.”That slogan repels people like Monica Martinez, a 44-year-old from Bethesda, Md., who works for a nonprofit that helps people with autism and was marching that Saturday. “He’s basically saying the lives of Americans are more important than the lives of people in other places — than lives of people in Cambodia,” she said, giving an example. She said she could not understand people who held that belief. “What do I say to my kids about that? What do I say if they ask me, ‘Hey, Mom, what’s wrong with putting America first?’ ”Nationalists love it.“He stood there and said, this is for you, this is your country, this is your government,” Dianna Ploss, a Trump voter from Massachusetts, said of Mr. Trump’s Inaugural Address. “That’s just amazing.”Divides change. They can eventually cause social upheaval, political turmoil and even violence. In Turkey, the protesting crowds turned out to be right. The government did take their country in the wrong direction.What will happen here? Social psychologists like Mr. Haidt say the best way to ease polarization and reduce anxiety among the nationalists is to emphasize our sameness. But in the crowds a week ago, no one seemed to be in the mood.“It’s just so hard to understand them,” Maureen Sauer, 55, an account manager in an insurance company from O’Fallon, Ill., said. “I guess they just wanted change? I don’t get it.”Ms. Ploss said that she was just as confused about the march. “I just don’t feel like my rights are going to be violated,” she said. “Yet all these women don’t feel safe? If I had had time, I would have asked them, ‘What are you fighting for?’ ”“Here I am walking down the street with my red dress and my flag shawl and people don’t even want to say hi,” she added. “What are we doing? What is happening? Are we going to take up arms against each other?”
Often a night at the ballet can serve as an escape from reality, a respite from politics, with its gridlock and its brinkmanship.But on Saturday evening, as crowds gathered at Kennedy International Airport to demonstrate in response to President Trump’s executive order on refugees and immigration, a protest-themed performance at the New York City Ballet underscored the tensions of the world outside Lincoln Center’s halls.The performance was both a dance piece — “The Times Are Racing,” choreographed by Justin Peck — and a fashion show for Opening Ceremony, which usually presents its collections during New York Fashion Week. Humberto Leon, who runs the company with Carol Lim, designed the costumes, which in turn inspired Opening Ceremony’s spring 2017 collection.The audience included Derek Blasberg, Claire Danes, Maggie Gyllenhaal and Solange Knowles.Mr. Leon said he had met with Mr. Peck “hundreds of times” to understand how his costumes could best serve the mood and themes of the ballet. He said he wanted a unique look for nearly every dancer in order for each to appear as authentic as possible, like “people meeting on the street.”Mr. Leon did the obvious. “I got all the dancers names and I went through all their Instagrams to get what their vibes were,” he said.To capture the ballet’s story of protest and community, Mr. Leon provided literal references: Shirts were printed with words like “defy,” “change” and “fight.”“Humberto had this brilliant idea of printing these action verbs on the garments,” Mr. Peck said, “and that gave it some sort of political undertones, which I think are very timely and important.”Leaping and kicking dancers also wore all manner of everyday street wear: sneakers, dresses, crop tops, shorts, skirts, leotards and jeans. The last item left at least one audience member scratching his head. “I’m curious to know, were those real jeans?” the actor Hugh Dancy asked.They were indeed real, said Savannah Lowery, a dancer who wore denim cutoffs. She explained that they had been long pants in their first iteration. “I could barely move my legs,” she said. So the seamstress turned them into shorts.After the show, family and friends gathered down the block at Shun Lee, in honor of Chinese New Year, where guests munched on dumplings, ribs and langoustines.Asked whether he found himself distracted by news of the president’s actions, Mr. Leon, a son of immigrants from Peru and China, noted that the ballet served a special purpose in its relation to current events.“We knew this was going to open four days after the inauguration,” he said. “In many ways this ballet was an ‘open ended question’ slash ‘response to everything that’s happening.’ This is a time capsule. In 10 to 15 years they’re going to replay this and you’re going to know when this opened.”
LONDON — Two days after being ordered by Britain’s Supreme Court to seek Parliament’s approval before beginning the process to take the country out of the European Union, Prime Minister Theresa May submitted a terse, 132-word bill to lawmakers on Thursday.“The Prime Minister may notify, under Article 50(2) of the Treaty on European Union, the United Kingdom’s intention to withdraw from the EU,” the main clause of the European Union draft act 2017 reads.Some saw the government’s brevity as an attempt to limit the scope for time-consuming amendments to allow Mrs. May to invoke Article 50, the legal process for leaving the European Union, by her self-imposed deadline, the end of March. But others saw a plan to give the government a mandate for what has been called a hard Brexit, making control of immigration a higher priority than staying in the European Union’s single market.“This narrow bill disguises the breadth of May’s objective,” Spencer Livermore, a member of Parliament, wrote on Twitter. “She wants a mandate for hard-right Tory policies, which Labour should deny her.”Members of the House of Commons, the lower house of Parliament, will start debating the bill on Tuesday. Given her conservative majority, the prime minister is expected to win swift approval. There was brief talk of a “rebellion” in the opposition Labour Party, where some lawmakers vowed to vote against an order from their party leader, Jeremy Corbyn, to back the bill, but the number of those balking appears too small to matter.Mrs. May might face more resistance in the House of Lords, the unelected upper chamber of Parliament, where her Tories do not have a majority. Some in her party have suggested that she should quickly appoint enough new lords to give her the votes she needs. But few say they expect that to be necessary: With little democratic credibility, the 805 lords are unlikely to dare to block last June’s referendum vote.Most resistance will come from the pro-European Scottish National Party, which promises to submit no fewer than 50 amendments to the bill.“There is no bill that cannot be amended,” said Stephen Gethins, the Scottish National Party’s spokesman on Europe. Amendments are not limited by the number of words in the bill, he said, because they can take the form of adding clauses.In one pre-emptive move, Mrs. May has already sought to stop demands for further debate on details of the government’s Brexit plan by promising to deliver a policy paper in the coming weeks. But she has not said whether the paper would be published before the final vote on the bill.Some lawmakers noted that her actions seemed to turn democratic traditions on their head, issuing policy papers that should inform parliamentary debate only after voting on the legislation.“The way they’re rushing this through and trying to shut down any debate shows that they don’t appear to have the courage of conviction,” Mr. Gethins said. “They wouldn’t be afraid of debate.”Though this bill is short, others have been shorter: The 1918 statute to give women the right to stand for election was 27 words. The longest act of Parliament was a law regarding taxation passed in 1821. Written on a scroll, it was nearly a quarter of a mile long and took two workers a day to rewind.
A few hours after the 2017 Oscar nominations were streamed live on YouTube, the best supporting actress candidate Nicole Kidman materialized on the steps of the Palais de Chaillot in Paris.Clad in a bell-sleeved black dress, blond hair pulled back in a high ponytail, statement jewels dangling from her ears, she was trailed by a posse of frenzied photographers. Roberta Armani, Giorgio Armani’s niece, clutched her by the arm as if she were a prized chicken and guided her into the bowels of the museum for the Armani Privé show.Downstairs they took their seats next to a small woman in a sky-blue trouser suit and black mock turtleneck — who happened to be the best actress nominee Isabelle Huppert (who wore Armani when she won her best actress Golden Globe). As these things go, it was a fashion moment in the making.What were they doing there? Award season shopping, we presume. So the audience settled back to guess what they might wear.And were treated to the story of Giorgio and the Giant Peach.Also mandarin, satsuma and clementine. Mr. Armani has a fondness for a color theme, and the chic of pixelated jacquard jackets over skinny black trousers and jeweled T-shirts soon segued into orange gowns in watercolor silks, sometimes with a jeweled bib around the neck, stiff ruffled cape or Arabesque embroidery. The predictable “Orange Is the New Black” jokes ensued (sometimes the orange was actually paired with black, which created an unfortunate Halloween effect). Ms. Huppert tapped her index finger against her upper lip and considered.If it was hard to imagine either her or Ms. Kidman in the swirl of silk accordion organza shaped à la tangerine on the hips, a Swarovski-strewn column twinkling under the shadow of a lace Creamsicle slip was a potential red carpet moment in the making.Celebrities have been pretty thin on the ground this couture. Paz Vega and Petra Nemcova (and lots of sable-clad clients) were dim-wattage flashbulb magnets at Elie Saab’s ode to Scheherazade writ in swirls of crystals, pearls and illusion netting, but there were none in the halls of the Invalides to take in Maison Margiela Artisanal. Which was too bad, as it was not only one of John Galliano’s best shows yet for the brand, but also one of the best of the week.Mr. Galliano’s tendency to chaotic de- and reconstruction had been reined in, and applied with surgical precision: A tweed cropped blouse atop a bias evening skirt was cut to reveal a window of the black crepe lining beneath; black tulle escaped from the lining of a coat to peek out literally, with an embroidered eye (and nose and lip), courtesy of the artist Benjamin Shine.Not everyone wants to wear someone else’s face on their front — though to a certain extent we all assume a public mien. But a slither of red tulle under a Grecian column of what looked like crocheted tablecloth was surprising in the most graceful way.Still, the star factor is so sparse, G-Dragon, the South Korean rapper/record producer/entrepreneur, might qualify as this season’s Rihanna (he has his own fashion line, too). He popped up at Chanel, and later at Vetements, which is not, in fact, couture, but something in-between: one-off pieces, yes, but not of the precious, petites mains kind.Held in the Pompidou, the show featured 37 sartorial clichés on 37 diverse non-models of all ages, genders, colors, heights and hip sizes, from the “Milanesa” (a silver-haired lady who lunched in a big mink coat, bigger sunglasses and a tailored skirt) to the “Punk” (spiked and studded lurid green painted leather jacket, matching trousers, matching boots, matching hair), “Miss Webcam” (cropped voluminous vinyl puffa jacket, stonewashed skinny jeans), and the “Bride” (a long white ruffled dress encased in a tulle shroud).Vetements has defined itself as “just making clothes” (hence the name) since it began, which is pretty much how this looked. Though there was some of their signature torqued reality on the runway, in the form of extra-long belts, oversize sleeves, “Not Your President” sloganeering, and layering, it was so pointedly banal that it seemed less like a collection and more like a piece of somewhat facile performance art. Fashion is arguably always social commentary, but at its best it is revelatory, not merely self-satisfied.As it happened, “The Nominee” was in there, too: wearing a draped electric blue evening gown secured at the hip and paired with a matching bag, shawl and heels. Wonder what Mesdames Huppert and Kidman would have made of that.
States that lost the most incoming freshmen to public universities elsewhere, and states that gained the most. Data is from the Department of Education for 2014.1. CALIFORNIA lost 17,196 freshmen to other states.Criticized for pursuing too manyout-of-state and international students tobolster revenue, the University ofCalifornia increased this fall’s admissionsoffers to residents by 15 percent. Still, itsmost prestigious campuses have thelowest admit rates of any public campus(18 percent at U.C.L.A. and Berkeley).Result: Students leave.2. ILLINOIS lost 16,461 freshmen to other states.A report last year by the IllinoisAssociation for College AdmissionCounseling suggests one motive for theexodus: money. “The ‘deals’ areremarkable. Iowa, Iowa State, Indiana,Michigan State … there is a long list ofscholarship options you can find onindividual college websites.” At the highlyranked New Trier Township High School,75 percent of graduates go out of state.3. NEW JERSEY lost 11,813 freshmen to other states.Brain drain is not new here.Philadelphia, Delaware and Marylandcampuses are a short commute forNew Jersey residents who want to liveat home. Then there’s overcrowding atRutgers, the flagship campus, where anew honors college aims to reversethe flow.4. TEXAS lost 11,179 freshmen to other states.Public universities must automaticallyadmit the top 10 percent of each highschool’s graduating class (less at theUniversity of Texas, Austin). To fans, thelaw promotes diversity by drawing fromless affluent schools. To critics, it edgesout students who just miss the cutoff forTexas’ elite campuses. They leave. (SeeFisher v. University of Texas.)5. NEW YORK lost 10,230 freshmen to other states.Tuition is low, but the State University ofNew York has never quite captured theimagination of urban collegegoers,although the state’s well-preparedstudents have captured the attention ofpublic universities elsewhere. ​1. PENNSYLVANIA took in 8,751 freshmen from other states.Out-of-state students account for 38percent of enrollment at Penn StateUniversity, nestled in an area calledHappy Valley. Scandals aside, footballculture is a draw.2. ALABAMA took in 8,652 freshmen from other states.The University of Alabama spent $100.6million on merit aid last year, much of itdistributed to high-achievingout-of-state students. The result: higheraverage test scores, one of the metricsused in the all-important rankings.Almost 60 percent of the student bodycomes from out of state.3. ARIZONA took in 8,618 freshmen from other states.Rebranded in 2002 as the “New AmericanUniversity,” Arizona State markets itselfas challenging tradition. And it’s growing,despite facing the largest cuts in statefunding of any public university. Over thelast decade, 170 degree programs havebeen added and the budget has nearlydoubled, thanks to fund-raising, businessdeals and recruitment.4. OHIO took in 7,065 freshmen from other states.Spending on merit aid by Ohio State’s flagship campus in Columbus — $72million in 2015-16 — is among the mostof any public university in the country,and a lure for out-of-state students.Last year, nonresidents made upalmost 25 percent of the freshmanclass, more than double the number ofa decade earlier.5. SOUTH CAROLINA took in 6,955 freshmen from other states.A decade ago, the University of SouthCarolina had a single recruiter, inAtlanta, and paid little attentionelsewhere. Then, said Mary Wagner,director of undergraduate admissions:“We did the math. There are morepeople in high schools outside of SouthCarolina.” It now has 20 recruiters.
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan — After years of living in the open in Pakistan despite a $10 million American bounty, the militant leader accused of orchestrating the 2008 Mumbai attacks, Hafiz Muhammad Saeed, was placed under house arrest in Lahore on Monday, Pakistani officials said.The move against Mr. Saeed, the founder of the banned militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba, came amid a reported new round of pressure by the United States to arrest Mr. Saeed and to ban Jamaat-ud-Dawa, the charity he leads, which has been accused by American officials of being a front for militants. The News, a Pakistani English-language newspaper, reported on Monday that American officials in the waning days of the Obama administration had threatened sanctions or other penalties if action was not taken.On Monday, Chaudhry Nisar Ali Khan, the Pakistani interior minister, announced that action against Jamaat-ud-Dawa was being discussed and that a decision would be announced on Tuesday. Hours later, police officers arrived at the group’s headquarters in Lahore and placed Mr. Saeed under house arrest. Party banners and flags were removed from the offices.This is not the first time, however, that Mr. Saeed has been put under house arrest, and he has repeatedly avoided long-term detention or serious legal charges. He was placed under detention at least twice after the 2008 attacks in Mumbai, which killed at least 166 people. India claimed almost immediately then that Mr. Saeed was the mastermind of the terrorist attacks.A Pakistani antiterrorism court is currently trying six suspects in the case: Mazhar Iqbal, Hammad Amin Sadiq, Abdul Wajid, Shahid Jameel Riaz, Jamil Ahmed and Younus Anjum. Another important suspect, Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi, considered the operational head of Lashkar-e-Taiba, is out on bail.For years, the Pakistani military establishment used Lashkar-e-Taiba and other militant groups as proxy forces against India in Kashmir.In 2012, the American authorities announced a $10 million reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction of Mr. Saeed. But he has continued to make public appearances, at times openly mocking the United States for his apparent impunity, and the issue has been a source of strain between the United States and Pakistan. Pakistani officials have balked at American and Indian pressure to charge Mr. Saeed in the Mumbai attacks, saying there is not enough evidence to prosecute him.More recently, as border tensions have mounted with India again in recent months, Mr. Saeed has been at the forefront of large protests against the Indian military.This month, Mr. Saeed asked the Islamabad High Court to remove his name from a terrorism watch list and maintained that he had no links to Lashkar-e-Taiba.Jamaat-ud-Dawa, meanwhile, has spread across the country from its initial base in Punjab Province. Over the past decade, the group has provided aid to those hit by natural disasters, and in some areas where the government has failed to provide basic necessities, Jamaat-ud-Dawa has worked to fill the void.Accordingly, Mr. Saeed has sympathizers and supporters across a large spectrum of society, and Pakistani officials have been wary of a potentially violent backlash if they move against the militant leader.
JERUSALEM — A Palestinian resident of East Jerusalem rammed a car into a crowd of Israelis at a Jerusalem bus stop on Monday, according to the Israeli police, injuring about a dozen of them, including an 18-month-old baby.A civilian, a private security guard and a member of Israel’s security forces all shot at the driver before he exited the vehicle, killing him, a police spokeswoman said.The chief of the Jerusalem district police said through the spokeswoman that this “quick and accurate action” had “prevented a larger attack.”The spokeswoman identified the driver as Abed el-Muhsen Hassuna, a 21-year-old from the Beit Hanina neighborhood, and said an ax was found in his car, a white Mazda sedan.The incident — part of a 10-week stretch of near-daily stabbing, shooting and vehicular attacks by Palestinians against Israeli Jews — occurred near the Bridge of Strings, designed by Santiago Calatrava, at the entrance to Jerusalem.
WASHINGTON — The standardized four-page checklist describes each Islamic State drone mission in chillingly impassive detail: Mission type (spy, bombing, training). Location (city, province). Drone components (motor, bomb ignition). Operation (successful or not).The form, apparently filled out by Islamic State drone operators in Iraq after every mission, was part of a batch of documents discovered in January by a Harvard researcher embedded with Iraqi troops in the battle of Mosul and then turned over to American military analysts for review.The documents — in Arabic and English — offer a rare window into how the Islamic State has cobbled together a rapidly advancing armed drone program that increasingly threatens allied troops fighting the militant group, also known as ISIS or ISIL. They show how the group has institutionalized a program using off-the-shelf technology to bedevil the militarily superior American armed forces.The Islamic State has used surveillance drones on the battlefield for about two years. But an increase in attacks since October — mostly targeting Iraqi troops — has highlighted its success in adapting readily accessible technology into a potentially effective new weapon.In the past two months, the Islamic State has used more than 80 remotely piloted drones against Iraqi forces and their allies. About one-third of the aircraft, some as small as model airplanes, dropped bombs or were rigged with explosives to detonate on the ground, said Col. John L. Dorrian, the spokesman for the American-led operation against the Islamic State in Baghdad.Iraqi officials said bombs dropped by the drones, which were primarily quadcopters, had killed about a dozen government soldiers and injured more than 50. “It poses a threat to troops on the ground, and it has value as a propaganda technique,” Colonel Dorrian said of the Islamic State drone program in an email. “However, it’s certainly not a game-changer when it comes to the outcome of the battle to liberate Mosul.”A new video message from the Islamic State, “Knights of the Departments,” appeared to depict these new drone missions.The documents were discovered by Vera Mironova, an international security fellow at the Belfer Center at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. Ms. Mironova obtained the documents while she was conducting research in Iraq on the individual behavior of Islamic State fighters. She said in an interview via Skype that she had come across the materials in a drone workshop formerly under the control of the Islamic State in the Muhandeseen neighborhood of Mosul, near Mosul University.Iraqi soldiers were not interested in the documents, Ms. Mironova said. But recognizing their potential value to the American military, she contacted the Combating Terrorism Center at West Point, which has previously published her work.Two researchers at the center, Don Rassler and Muhammad al-Ubaydi, reviewed the roughly 30 pages she sent. Confirming the authenticity of documents from a war zone is always tricky. But in a nine-page assessment, an advance copy of which was provided to The New York Times along with the documents themselves, the authors concluded the materials were genuine based on where and how Ms. Mironova obtained them and the center’s experience working with an array of captured battlefield material.All of the documents appear to be from around 2015 — the early phases of the drone program — and the collection includes a mix of official Islamic State forms and handwritten notes, according to the researchers’ analysis.The materials reveal that the Islamic State, much like its forerunner, Al Qaeda’s affiliate in Iraq, is detail-oriented and bureaucratic when it comes to its operations. According to the assessment of the documents, the Islamic State’s drone unit falls under the Al Bara’ bin Malik Brigade, a part of the aviation sector of the Islamic State’s Committee for Military Manufacturing and Development.The standardized four-page checklist for drone operations provided another example. On the first page, drone operators were asked to provide details about their mission — specifically, the type of mission (there are six options, including “Bombing” and “Explosive Plane”), the militants who were involved, the location and the way point coordinates for the flight.The second page of the form consisted of a checklist that seems to have been designed to help the drone operators conduct pre- or post-mission checks of their systems and equipment (including “Bomb Ignition sys” and “Bomb igniter RC”), the assessment said. The third page was a checklist of gear in the operator’s “tool case,” including “screwdriver,” “pliers” and “knife.”The last page of the form asked the operators to note whether their mission had succeeded or failed. It also provided space for the operators to write notes, perhaps to document lessons learned from failed missions or interesting events that occurred during successful ones, the assessment said.The documents also contained detailed acquisition records, essentially shopping lists for the off-the-shelf commercial technology that the Islamic State is buying.The lists showed the group’s efforts to buy items like a GoPro camera, memory cards, GPS units, digital video recorders and extra propeller blades, the assessment said. The purchasing lists also highlighted the group’s efforts to enhance the range and performance of its drones, whether bought commercially or not. For example, to protect the transmission of their drone video feeds, members of the group wanted to acquire encrypted video transmitters and receivers, the assessment said.“There seems to be a list of material necessary to the construction of those drones,” said Damien Spleeters, head of operations in Iraq for Conflict Armament Research, a private arms consultancy that has been investigating weapons recovered from the Islamic State since 2014. Mr. Spleeters has also reviewed the documents for the West Point center. “So it shows consistency and standardization, certainly with some sort of chain of supply in place,” he said.American military officials said that the Pentagon had dedicated significant resources to stopping Islamic State drones but that few Iraqi and Kurdish units had been provided with the sophisticated devices that the American troops had to disarm them. The officials said they had ordered the Pentagon agency in charge of dealing with explosive devices — known as the Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat Organization — to study ways to thwart hostile drones. Last summer, the Pentagon requested an additional $20 million from Congress to help address the problem.The recovered documents offer few clues about how the militants view the future of their drones.“In the short term, we should expect the Islamic State to refine its drone bomb-drop capability,” the assessment concluded. “It is likely that the Islamic State’s use of this tactic will not only become more frequent, but more lethal as well.”
It’s an annual tradition: Every year, bookmakers make up a lot of goofy Super Bowl bets, known as “props.” The wagers bring good publicity and maybe earn the bookie a few bucks.Only sometimes, it goes wrong.Some of the most common Super Bowl bets revolve around the coin toss. Will it come up heads or tails? Who will win it? Will the winner elect to receive?So when Bookmaker.eu, an online betting site based in Costa Rica, set the odds on whether the team making the call this year would choose heads or tails, it seemed like a fairly standard bet. And logically enough, they made it even money. Sometimes people call heads and sometimes tails, right?“It’s a pretty standard Super Bowl prop,” Scott Cooley, a spokesman for Bookmaker, said. “I don’t think a lot of thought went into it this year.”Although the bookmaker may not have done much due diligence, bettors had. The Patriots are the designated visiting team for this year’s Super Bowl, and thus will get to call the coin toss. And you may not have noticed it, but the Patriots always call heads. Indeed, as Bookmaker eventually discovered to its chagrin, the Patriots have called heads every time for at least two full seasons.At least some bettors had noticed this, and, smelling a sure thing, they began betting heavily on heads. “We started getting some pretty good action on it,” Cooley said. “Whenever we get one-sided action, flags go up.”At first, Bookmaker merely adjusted the odds slightly, but eventually the torrent of bets on heads led it to stop taking wagers on the proposition at all for a few days. When Bookmaker was ready to post the odds again on Sunday, it considered making heads an 8-1 or even a 10-1 favorite, before settling on 6-1. That means a bet of $60 on heads will earn only a $10 profit.So what went wrong? “It was obviously negligence on our part,” Cooley acknowledged. For standard bets like point spreads, "we have concrete numbers to build it on.” He continued, “Some of the more gimmicky props, we’re just as much in the dark as the general public.”Another factor was keeping up with the competition. “We’re up against time,” he said. “We’re trying to expedite what we offer. It has become a competition between the markets and books around the world. Sometimes research can only go so far.”He said that if the call was indeed “heads” on Sunday, Bookmaker would lose a sum “in the low five figures.” Still, that’s not a major hit when they will be taking in million-dollar bets on the game, Cooley said.The book was helped that its limits on the bet, as they are on most props, were low, between $1,000 and $2,000.Although Cooley said a “low level” employee had put up the odds on the coin toss, he said no one would be fired over the incident: “We make mistakes; we’re human.”Is there another prop bet that has taken a lot of action? Cooley said that one of the company’s "biggest movers” was on what color Lady Gaga’s hair would be at the halftime show, her first performance there.When the bet was posted, blond was a small favorite. But the money came in heavily on blond, and it is now a 5-1 favorite. There aren’t many sure things in sports, but a heads and blond parlay looks like a lock.
Having barely survived the Holocaust, Paul and Anna Ornstein might have been among the least likely converts to an evolving psychoanalytical movement that views the world more positively than traditional Freudian analysis does.Yet the couple, who met as teenagers in Hungary, transcended their own trauma. They were miraculously reunited after World War II, enrolled in medical school together, fled the Communist regime of postwar Hungary, and settled in the United States, where they became leading proponents of an emerging psychoanalytic theory, called self-psychology, founded by Prof. Heinz Kohut of Chicago.Paul Ornstein, who died at 92 on Jan. 19 in Brookline, Mass., could recall digging trenches for German troops as part of a forced labor battalion in Ukraine during World War II. After managing to escape, he hid for months in 1944 in the basement of the Swiss Embassy annex in Budapest.Once the Red Army routed the Germans, he returned to his hometown in Hungary to search for his parents, his four siblings and his girlfriend, Anna Brunn, a distant cousin with whom he had fallen in love before the war, when he was 17 and she was barely a teenager.None appeared to have survived the Holocaust; he assumed they had been killed in death camps or in forced labor. Alone, he considered leaving his homeland behind and moving to Palestine. But with no way to get there, he instead enrolled in medical school in Hungary to pursue a career in psychoanalysis, inspired by his curiosity about what had motivated the anti-Semitism he experienced.Six months later, he learned that his father and Anna were still alive, liberated from separate concentration camps.“As it happened, Anna returned from Auschwitz with her mother, and my father returned from Mauthausen during the same week,” Dr. Ornstein recalled in a memoir.Reunited, he and Anna, who had lost two brothers and her father in the Holocaust, enrolled in the Heidelberg University School of Medicine in Germany, where their classmates included former Nazis.They married in 1946 and moved to the United States, where they became major figures in the self-psychology movement, a provocative and evolving theory that challenged traditional Freudian analysis.Dr. Ornstein embraced and advanced the theory, which encourages therapists to be more empathetic — “vicarious introspection,” Dr. Kohut called it. Instead of dealing primarily with individual guilt, sex and aggression, as Freudians do, self-psychology postulates that parents’ failure to support a child’s sense of self leads to later personality disorders.Dr. Anna Ornstein said in an interview on Monday that she believed that her husband’s self-esteem, and hers, enabled them to survive and that it shaped their outlook on the academic discipline they chose.“It was never easy to be a Jew in Hungary, but when the ultimate hell broke loose, we were extra fortunate in terms of the parenting, the care and love we had as children,” she said. “We had very sturdy self-esteem. As much as we were humiliated, we never felt demeaned because we came from a culture and emotional environment that we could be proud of. We were called ‘dirty Jews,’ but we knew who we really were.”She added, “Self-psychology simply says, ‘Get to know the other — that the skin color, the religion is not what determines a human being.’”That outlook was why they were able to maintain a positive approach to psychoanalysis, she said, and even to tolerate former Nazis who might have committed atrocities during the war.“That didn’t mean you couldn’t find in them a spark of humanity had they not been exposed to that nightmare, and if the political system had not been able to destroy their individual sense of morality,” she said.Writing in Self Psychology Review, Carl V. Rabstejnek described self-psychology as “based on a theory of normal, not pathological, development.”“Treatment,” he added, “depends upon a corrective therapeutic experience that allows healthy structure to be belatedly formed in a relationship with an empathic therapist.”Paul Hermann Ornstein was born on April 4, 1924, in Hajdunanas, Hungary, the son of Abraham Ornstein, an accountant, and the former Frieda Sziment.He studied at the Franz Josef National Rabbinical Seminary and there delved into handwriting analysis. It became what he called his “first systematic effort, I think, to try to understand my own inner life and that of other people,” he wrote in “Looking Back: Memoir of a Psychoanalyst” (2015, with Helen Epstein).Growing up in a climate of garden-variety anti-Semitism, as his wife described it, Dr. Ornstein developed an early interest in behavior and motivation. It “may explain my gravitating toward psychoanalysis before I even knew what it was,” he told The Boston Globe last year.Dr. Ornstein continued his studies at the seminary until Hungary, which was aligned with the Axis powers, was occupied by Germany. Jews were deported or forced into labor gangs. As a teenager during World War II, he escaped twice from labor camps, where he was conscripted to dig trenches to protect Nazi and Hungarian troops from the advancing Russians.After the war, fewer than 50 of the 250 Jewish families in his hometown, Hajdunanas, returned.Dr. Ornstein did his residency in psychiatry at the University of Cincinnati and trained at the Chicago Institute for Psychoanalysis. He became a professor of psychiatry and psychoanalysis at the University of Cincinnati.His wife said he died of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.Besides her, he is survived by his daughters, Sharone and Miriam Ornstein; his son, Rafael; and seven grandchildren.All three of his children became psychiatrists, and two of them married psychiatrists.
Having barely survived the Holocaust, Paul and Anna Ornstein might have been among the least likely converts to an evolving psychoanalytical movement that views the world more positively than traditional Freudian analysis does.Yet the couple, who met as teenagers in Hungary, transcended their own trauma. They were miraculously reunited after World War II, enrolled in medical school together, fled the Communist regime of postwar Hungary, and settled in the United States, where they became leading proponents of an emerging psychoanalytic theory, called self-psychology, founded by Prof. Heinz Kohut of Chicago.Paul Ornstein, who died at 92 on Jan. 19 in Brookline, Mass., could recall digging trenches for German troops as part of a forced labor battalion in Ukraine during World War II. After managing to escape, he hid for months in 1944 in the basement of the Swiss Embassy annex in Budapest.Once the Red Army routed the Germans, he returned to his hometown in Hungary to search for his parents, his four siblings and his girlfriend, Anna Brunn, a distant cousin with whom he had fallen in love before the war, when he was 17 and she was barely a teenager.None appeared to have survived the Holocaust; he assumed they had been killed in death camps or in forced labor. Alone, he considered leaving his homeland behind and moving to Palestine. But with no way to get there, he instead enrolled in medical school in Hungary to pursue a career in psychoanalysis, inspired by his curiosity about what had motivated the anti-Semitism he experienced.Six months later, he learned that his father and Anna were still alive, liberated from separate concentration camps.“As it happened, Anna returned from Auschwitz with her mother, and my father returned from Mauthausen during the same week,” Dr. Ornstein recalled in a memoir.Reunited, he and Anna, who had lost two brothers and her father in the Holocaust, enrolled in the Heidelberg University School of Medicine in Germany, where their classmates included former Nazis.They married in 1946 and moved to the United States, where they became major figures in the self-psychology movement, a provocative and evolving theory that challenged traditional Freudian analysis.Dr. Ornstein embraced and advanced the theory, which encourages therapists to be more empathetic — “vicarious introspection,” Dr. Kohut called it. Instead of dealing primarily with individual guilt, sex and aggression, as Freudians do, self-psychology postulates that parents’ failure to support a child’s sense of self leads to later personality disorders.Dr. Anna Ornstein said in an interview on Monday that she believed that her husband’s self-esteem, and hers, enabled them to survive and that it shaped their outlook on the academic discipline they chose.“It was never easy to be a Jew in Hungary, but when the ultimate hell broke loose, we were extra fortunate in terms of the parenting, the care and love we had as children,” she said. “We had very sturdy self-esteem. As much as we were humiliated, we never felt demeaned because we came from a culture and emotional environment that we could be proud of. We were called ‘dirty Jews,’ but we knew who we really were.”She added, “Self-psychology simply says, ‘Get to know the other — that the skin color, the religion is not what determines a human being.’”That outlook was why they were able to maintain a positive approach to psychoanalysis, she said, and even to tolerate former Nazis who might have committed atrocities during the war.“That didn’t mean you couldn’t find in them a spark of humanity had they not been exposed to that nightmare, and if the political system had not been able to destroy their individual sense of morality,” she said.Writing in Self Psychology Review, Carl V. Rabstejnek described self-psychology as “based on a theory of normal, not pathological, development.”“Treatment,” he added, “depends upon a corrective therapeutic experience that allows healthy structure to be belatedly formed in a relationship with an empathic therapist.”Paul Hermann Ornstein was born on April 4, 1924, in Hajdunanas, Hungary, the son of Abraham Ornstein, an accountant, and the former Frieda Sziment.He studied at the Franz Josef National Rabbinical Seminary and there delved into handwriting analysis. It became what he called his “first systematic effort, I think, to try to understand my own inner life and that of other people,” he wrote in “Looking Back: Memoir of a Psychoanalyst” (2015, with Helen Epstein).Growing up in a climate of garden-variety anti-Semitism, as his wife described it, Dr. Ornstein developed an early interest in behavior and motivation. It “may explain my gravitating toward psychoanalysis before I even knew what it was,” he told The Boston Globe last year.Dr. Ornstein continued his studies at the seminary until Hungary, which was aligned with the Axis powers, was occupied by Germany. Jews were deported or forced into labor gangs. As a teenager during World War II, he escaped twice from labor camps, where he was conscripted to dig trenches to protect Nazi and Hungarian troops from the advancing Russians.After the war, fewer than 50 of the 250 Jewish families in his hometown, Hajdunanas, returned.Dr. Ornstein did his residency in psychiatry at the University of Cincinnati and trained at the Chicago Institute for Psychoanalysis. He became a professor of psychiatry and psychoanalysis at the University of Cincinnati.His wife said he died of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.Besides her, he is survived by his daughters, Sharone and Miriam Ornstein; his son, Rafael; and seven grandchildren.All three of his children became psychiatrists, and two of them married psychiatrists.
PARIS — The Spanish director Pedro Almodóvar will preside over the jury of the Cannes Film Festival in May, the organizers of the event announced on Tuesday.“For its 70th edition, the Festival de Cannes is delighted to welcome a unique and hugely popular artist,” the president of the festival, Pierre Lescure, and its director, Thierry Frémaux, said in the announcement. “His works have already carved out an eternal niche in the history of film.”Mr. Almodóvar served on the Cannes jury in 1992, and five of his films have been selected for competition at the festival: “All About My Mother” (1999), for which he won the prize for best director; “Volver” (2006), which won best screenplay and best actress — shared by several cast members; “Broken Embraces” (2009); “The Skin I Live In” (2011); and “Julieta” (2016). His movie “Bad Education” opened the festival in 2004.“I am grateful, honored and a bit overwhelmed,” the director said in the statement. “I am aware of the responsibility that entails being the president of the jury, and I hope to be up to the job. I can only tell that I’ll devote myself, body and soul, to this task, that it is both a privilege and a pleasure.”Mr. Lescure and Mr. Frémaux praised Mr. Almodóvar’s 20 films as “an incandescent oeuvre, a legacy of his punk, protest-filled youth, and driven by an insatiable passion for female figures and the history of film itself.”They added: “Ever surprising and eclectic but always coherent, the director from La Mancha can turn his hand to any genre – vaudeville, farce, tragedy, fantasy, musical or thriller — while never losing sight of his pet themes: passion, filiation, destiny, guilt and buried secrets.”The festival will take place from May 17 to 28. The full jury and the list of selected films will be announced in April.
Last year, Fred Klein spent a lot of time in group exercise classes in Manhattan, although replacing his love handles with rock-hard obliques was not his objective. Mr. Klein is the chief content officer for Peloton Cycle, a boutique fitness studio. He was seeking instructors to poach and hire.For months Mr. Klein burned calories but came up empty in his talent search. No instructor had the qualities he was looking for. Then, at a rival studio, Flywheel Sports, he discovered Alex Toussaint.“Five minutes into the class, I knew it,” Mr. Klein said in the dazzled tone a Hollywood casting agent might use to recall first meeting Denzel Washington. “I was, like, he’s a really great Flywheel instructor. But also — that voice. This guy could do commercial voice-overs. What is he doing locked in a room with only 50 bikes?”The fitness industry has been a cult of personality since the days of Jack Lalanne, and there is no shortage of models and performers within the instructor ranks at places like Equinox and SoulCycle. But perhaps no brand is trying harder to make the connection between working out and glossy entertainment more explicit than Peloton.Peloton started three years ago and has a single location in New York, on West 23rd Street in Chelsea. Riders take classes there, just as they would at any indoor cycling studio. But Peloton’s main source of revenue comes from the black logo-embossed stationary bikes it sells for $2,000 around the country. (The company says it has sold 80,000.)The physical studio, with cameras and lights placed amid the stationary bikes, is really the set where the company films classes, creating sleek videos that can be seen via live stream or downloaded on-demand by Peloton bike-owners for $39 a month. The instructors are encouraged to break the fourth wall by looking directly into the camera and talking to the at-home riders, whose names and hometowns appear on a computer tablet affixed to their bikes and everyone else’s.“Let’s not think about it as a fitness facility with cameras,” John Foley, a founder of Peloton and its chief executive, once told his staff. “Let’s think about it as a television streaming facility filming fitness content.”In a sense, each class taught is the show, with the 11 instructors as young, beautiful, racially diverse cast members: It’s like “Real World: Peloton.”There is Ally Love, 28, the Afro-sporting model-dancer and Brooklyn Nets host who used fitness to overcome a childhood car accident. There is Matt Wilpers, 33, the aw-shucks Georgia guy who ran Division I college track and might throw a country tune into his ride. The Peloton executives want star power, but not just that. “It’s also about relatability and authenticity,” Mr. Klein said.If the Peloton cast has a leading woman, it’s Robin Arzón, 35. She is the studio’s head instructor and the company’s vice president for fitness programming. She has, not incidentally, 86,000 followers on Instagram.One evening last month, Ms. Arzón arrived at the studio to lead a 6:30 class. As women and men changed into cycling shoes, Ms. Arzón swept by them and descended to a small basement dressing room.Sitting before a mirrored vanity like a Broadway actress, she sipped green juice from the gym’s cafe and prepared her workout music. At the sound of a Lil Wayne remix by the D.J. Haterade, Ms. Arzón jumped up and started energetically dancing.“This drop is so sick! I just lose my mind,” she said, overcome.A former lawyer, Ms. Arzón quit office life in 2012 to take a teaching job at a group fitness studio and build a coaching business as RobinNYC. None of that compares with what she is doing now for Peloton. “It’s the difference between standing with a megaphone in Union Square and getting on the soundstage at the ‘Today’ show,” she said.“You’re up there on the stage, you obviously see the lights and the cameras and think, O.K., this is different,” she added. “You’re being counted down by a producer and you simultaneously have nearly 60 people in the room, and at home, 800 people sometimes.”Ms. Arzón was dressed in a black spandex catsuit with maroon piping that she had worn to teach her afternoon class that day. It was part of her five-piece capsule collection, which she helped design. The catsuit was carried in Peloton’s boutique, before selling out.To not repeat outfits, she changed for her evening class into orange leggings, a black Peloton-branded sports bra and an orange hat worn backward so it wouldn’t cast a shadow across her face.“I almost always wear bright lipstick, too,” said Ms. Arzón, who has discovered that bright colors pop on camera. “I don’t tend to wear eye shadow because that would be a disaster waiting to happen. You’ll look like a football player.”Ms. Arzón runs 50- and 100-mile ultramarathons, and last year she published a motivational guide, “Shut Up and Run.” After her afternoon class, she did a 10-mile sprint around the city. The evening class would be her third workout of the day. Though instructors care about their on-camera appearance, fitness comes first. “It’s not a dog and pony show,” she said.When it was time to teach her 6:30 class, Ms. Arzón went upstairs to the studio to greet the live riders, then was cued in by a producer — 3, 2, 1. The show began, and she gave an over-the-top performance, pounding her hand against the bike frame, cursing as she climbed imaginary mountains, barking out “20 more seconds!” to slackers, giving shout-outs to home riders (“HP, I see you, baby, stay at the top”), dancing in the saddle to Kanye songs.Fame for instructors at studio franchises like SoulCycle is intense but tends to be hyperlocal. But Peloton’s small cadre of instructors is reaching thousands of people across the world every week.For Peloton riders who live outside New York, of which there are tens of thousands, traveling to the city to take classes with favorite instructors is a special rite.Emma Stern of Ames, Iowa, bought a bike last fall. She used to live in Dallas and had enjoyed indoor cycling classes at Flywheel. Absent any similar boutique cycling studios in Ames, she went the Peloton route and says she loves it.She and her husband, Matthew, traveled from Iowa in late December to work out in the studio. “At first, there was definitely some shock and star-struckness that we were taking Cody’s class,” Ms. Stern said, referring to Cody Rigsby. “Oh, my gosh. I’ve seen this person on TV.”It’s that kind of reaction that Mr. Rigsby, 29, hoped for when he became a Peloton instructor three years ago. He had been a dancer who performed with Katy Perry and other singers, but he said he was tired of being “a moving piece of furniture” and wanted to “create my own career, my own brand, my own energy.”Jessica King, 31, another Peloton instructor and trained dancer, also saw a gig with Peloton as a different shot at fame, which is just what Mr. Foley, the chief executive, promised when recruiting her.“He looked right at me and said, ‘We’re going to make you a celebrity,’” Ms. King said. “And I said, ‘Yeah, sign me up.’ That was the sole motivating reason to do it.”
Abortion opponents gathered on Friday in Washington for their annual march, which has taken place every year since 1974 to protest the Supreme Court’s 44-year-old Roe v. Wade decision from 1973.■ Vice President Mike Pence, the highest-ranking official to ever speak in person at the march, told the crowd that “life is winning.”■ Kellyanne Conway, counselor to President Trump, also addressed the crowd.■ The march drew thousands of activists.Mr. Pence, using the refrain “life is winning,” assured the crowd that Mr. Trump shared their opposition to abortion and would appoint a justice to the Supreme Court who held that view as well.“We will not rest until we restore a culture of life in America,” Mr. Pence said, and thousands in the crowd cheered.He also said that by many measures — the views of members of Congress and advances in science among them — “life is winning in America.”Standing where other Republican leaders have usually just sent video or audio recordings of their message, Mr. Pence said the anti-abortion movement should embrace the moment.Kellyanne Conway may have sprung onto the national political scene largely unknown. But inside the movement of those opposing abortion, she has been a leading figure for two decades.“Kellyanne is one of us,” is how she was introduced at the March for Life. As a pollster and political strategist, she advised numerous groups like the Susan B. Anthony List and the March for Life, urging them to adopt what she often described as a more conscience-based approach that avoided some of the more incendiary language of the movement in the past.Opponents of abortion gather every year on the National Mall and march to the Supreme Court. Usually their defiance is not much more than symbolism — the court is the origin of Roe v. Wade, the decision in 1973 that they have sought for more than 40 years to overturn.This year they have ample reason to believe that under a Republican-dominated government, they will begin to see movement for the first time in more than a decade.In previous years, no president or vice president has ever addressed the march in person. This year, the Trump administration will be out in full force with the appearances of Mr. Pence and Ms. Conway.President Trump, in one of his first official acts, signed an order prohibiting foreign aid to health providers abroad who discuss abortion as a family-planning option. And in a break with previous Republican presidents, he has embraced the idea of a litmus test for his Supreme Court nominees and pledged explicitly to name someone who opposes abortion. He said he would announce his choice on Thursday to fill the seat left vacant by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia last February.Mr. Trump has become an unlikely champion for the movement, with abortion opponents saying he is probably their most unflinching White House ally since President Ronald Reagan. Though Mr. Trump spent much of his life as a supporter of abortion rights, he spoke more vividly and forcefully on the issue during the campaign than any recent Republican nominee.And while many groups opposing abortion were vehemently opposed to Mr. Trump during the Republican primaries last year, almost all of them came around. Today, however unexpectedly, they march in a Washington suddenly more friendly to their interests.Many of the activists said they were looking forward to President Trump appointing Supreme Court justices who might overturn the right to abortions and to the defunding of Planned Parenthood. Marchers waved signs spelling out their beliefs in messages like “Save the babies,” “Pro-Child, Pro-Women, Pro-Life,” and “Trump for Baby Bumps.”Still, some of the marchers remained wary of the new president.Kathleen Crank, 19, a sophomore at Benedictine College in Atchison, Kan., traveled on a five bus caravan of 260 students to come to the march. She said she was happy to have a president who would oppose abortion but wasn’t excited about much else about Mr. Trump. She said she waited until the last minute and decided not to vote for either him or Hillary Clinton.“Their stance on abortion is probably the only issue I’m glad about for this administration,” she said. “I’m glad that after eight years of reading Obama’s tweets celebrating Roe v. Wade, I’m glad we finally have an administration that is recognizing we need to cut funding for abortions in other countries and bringing it back down to the state level.”Ms. Crank also said she saw abortions as less about religion than about preserving the rights of unborn children. “It’s more a social justice issue for unborn babies than a religious one to push an agenda,” she said. “Everyone should be able to live their life and live it however they want to.”Annette Saunders, 60, drove five hours with her husband from Norwalk, Conn., to volunteer with Save the Storks, a group that opposes abortion, and to hand out signs that said, “For those who can’t.” Though she voted for Mr. Trump, Ms. Saunders said she agonized over the decision because she found him to be “crass” and was frustrated by the tape of him using vulgarities to talk about women.“I was concerned but I felt like God told me to vote for Donald Trump,” she said. “He is standing up for pro-life and his vice president certainly is and I’m excited about seeing a turnaround.”Jon Banks and Josie Rauh, both 18, were taking photos of each other in front of the Washington Monument clad in red and blue Trump-45th President caps. They were part of a group that traveled to Washington from Archbishop Hoban, a private Catholic high school in Akron, Ohio. Both said Mr. Trump’s opposition to abortion were the centerpieces of their support for the new president. They grew up in families dedicated to the cause.Ms. Rauh had supported former President Barack Obama but became enthusiastic in 2016. “I thought Obama was a pretty good president,” she said. “I think there are some things that need to be changed, like Roe v. Wade. I think Trump has got a plan and is ready to do it.”“I want women to have their rights,” she added. “But I think there are a bunch of women in the womb that are being killed, too.”Mr. Banks, the son of a police officer, said he was thrilled by Mr. Trump’s patriotism. He said he hoped the new president found a way to outlaw abortion.As Mr. Pence, Ms. Conway and several other speakers celebrated what they described as a new phase for the anti-abortion movement, thousands of people shouted “Trump” and “Life” while happily waving their hands.Anne Nudi, 49, a nurse and college professor who flew to Washington from her home in Kenosha, Wis., to come to the march, said she enthusiastically cast her ballot for Mr. Trump and has been encouraged by his first busy week in office.“I feel empowered. I feel positive. I feel encouraged about the future and I feel blessed that I have a president who is supportive of our cause,” she said as she shivered while watching the speakers. “I believe he’s a good person. He’s made his own way and I believe he wants what’s best for our country regardless of party affiliation.”
SAN FRANCISCO — Peter Thiel is a billionaire, the biggest Donald J. Trump supporter in Trump-hating Silicon Valley and, above all, someone who prides himself on doing the opposite of what everyone else is doing.So it makes perfect sense that right after President Trump proclaimed in his inaugural address that “the bedrock of our politics will be a total allegiance to the United States of America,” Mr. Thiel was revealed to be a citizen of a country on the other side of the world: New Zealand.In these uncertain times, it is undoubtedly smart to have a backup country. But the news that one of the richest citizens of New Zealand is a naturalized American who was born in Germany set off an immediate furor in the island nation.One question being asked was why Mr. Thiel became a New Zealander in 2011. Close behind that was how it happened.If you like New Zealand enough to want to become a citizen, the country’s Internal Affairs Department noted on Wednesday, one requirement is “to have been physically in New Zealand for a minimum of 1,350 days in the five years preceding the citizenship application.” Another requirement is that you “continue to reside” there after becoming a citizen.Mr. Thiel, 49, does not appear to have done either.The investor, who retains his American citizenship, was a founder of the online payments site PayPal and the data company Palantir. He secretly funded the lawsuit that killed off Gawker Media, the network of gossip sites that outed him as gay.When Mr. Trump won, Mr. Thiel emerged as a key adviser. He has spent much of the time since the election in New York as part of the transition team. People from Mr. Thiel’s network are under consideration for significant jobs in Trump’s cabinet.As a byproduct of his singular support for Mr. Trump in Silicon Valley, Mr. Thiel has become famous, a fate many of his peers go out of their way to avoid. He has been reported as a possible Supreme Court justice, as a potential Republican candidate for governor of California, and most recently, as President Trump’s potential ambassador to Germany. (He denied the first, and the others appear unlikely.)Mr. Thiel’s admiration for New Zealand is longstanding. “Utopia,” he once called it. He has an investment firm in the country that has put millions into local start-ups. He also owns lavish properties there, which his Silicon Valley friends hope to fly to in the event of a worldwide pandemic.But actually going so far as to become a citizen? That was a surprise, and it makes for an odd juxtaposition with President Trump, who has chastised companies for investing in other countries, and who said on Friday, “From this moment on, it’s going to be America first.”A spokesman for Mr. Thiel declined to comment. A White House spokeswoman did not return a message seeking comment.Mr. Thiel’s citizenship came to light when Matt Nippert, an investigative reporter for The New Zealand Herald, was looking into a lakefront estate that Mr. Thiel bought in the country in 2015 for somewhere in the neighborhood of $10 million. Since it was farmland, the 477-acre South Island property appeared to come under the Overseas Investment Act’s definition of “sensitive land.” The law requires foreigners to seek official permission.But Mr. Thiel did not need permission, the reporter found, because he was a New Zealand citizen.Joanna Carr, a spokeswoman for the Overseas Investment Office, confirmed on Wednesday that Mr. Thiel had presented the required documentation. “We learned of Mr. Thiel’s citizenship last year,” Ms. Carr said in a statement.New Zealand’s typical process for citizenship has numerous conditions, including residency and “good character,” which is actively confirmed.“It just seems very, very unlikely that Mr. Thiel lived in New Zealand for the majority of his time for the five years preceding 2011 and went unnoticed,” Iain Lees-Galloway, a spokesman for the Labour Party, said in an interview. “We’re a small country; he’s a very wealthy man; he’s a man who is prominent in the business world. I think he would have stood out in New Zealand.”If Mr. Thiel was not a resident in New Zealand for the necessary amount of time, an exception must have been made. The government has not responded to questions about whether that happened and, if so, what the reason was.“I guess what people are concerned about and the question that we’re asking is, Did money play a part in this?” Mr. Lees-Galloway said. “Is it because he is a wealthy person that he was given special treatment? That is something which jars with New Zealand values. We’re an egalitarian country: We pride ourselves on treating everyone equally regardless of their wealth.”Mr. Lees-Galloway lodged written questions in Parliament on Wednesday with the minister of internal affairs, Peter Dunne. The government has until mid-February to respond.Perhaps Mr. Thiel’s interest in New Zealand is indeed a way of hedging his bets on a biological catastrophe or an economic meltdown. There might be a tax strategy. New Zealand’s reputation as a tax haven was confirmed by the recent Panama Papers scandal.There is yet another possibility. Mr. Thiel is a huge fan of “The Lord of the Rings” and has named investments after elements of the J. R. R. Tolkien epic — Mithril, Palantir and, in New Zealand itself, Valar.And New Zealand was where Peter Jackson made his acclaimed films of the series. Becoming a citizen might be the closest thing to living in Middle-earth itself.
On Tuesday the composer Philip Glass will celebrate his 80th birthday at Carnegie Hall with the world premiere of his Symphony No. 11, performed by the Bruckner Orchestra Linz under Dennis Russell Davies. Mr. Glass is best known for his film scores (“The Truman Show,” “The Hours,” “Notes on a Scandal”) and for experimental operas like “Einstein on the Beach,” but he has been equally prolific in more traditional genres like the symphony and the string quartet.“I’ve found that the symphonies’ appeal is that they each have a personality,” he said in a recent phone interview, reflecting on the coming performance. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.What should listeners keep in mind for this new piece?I’ve returned to earlier ideas of repetition, which I thought I had abandoned and now I have rediscovered. They have a different effect than they had when I was doing it in this semi-hypnotic style of repetitions slowly shifting over time. This is somewhat different: I’m taking little repetitions and making them into structural gestures.When I was a student, my first instrument was flute, but my second instrument was percussion. Like any kid, I wanted to play the drums. I have a very strong connection to percussion writing, and that comes forward in this symphony more than in any of the other ones. I even begin the third movement with solo percussion. It’s almost like a confession: I really like this kind of music.Your reputation is primarily based on your work in film and opera. Why did you start writing symphonies?I began the symphonies when I was in my 50s, so I’ve only been writing symphonies for the last 30 years — which isn’t that long, really. I could easily not have done any symphonies, but it turned out that Dennis Russell Davies was interested in working on that kind of work with me. And he pretty much commissioned all the symphonies, except for No. 7.Were you superstitious about the so-called Curse of the Ninth, the myth that composers die after writing their Ninth Symphonies?When I finished No. 9, Dennis teased me: “Is this the last one?” I immediately wrote No. 10 — immediately! I completed it within six weeks of finishing No. 9.Does the 11th relate to your other recent works?The pieces that are written within a period of three or four years of each other tend to work out the same kind of structure, or ideas of musical language that tend to be similar. This one is closest perhaps to a double concerto for two pianos that I just composed. Like most composers, I’m working with an evolving language. It’s always recognizably me. Not because I don’t try not to be me: I do try, and I fail all the time. The best thing for me is when I play a new piece and someone says, “Oh, it doesn’t sound like you.” That, to me, is success.You’ve often been called a Minimalist. How would you characterize your music today?I’m in the generation of people who have returned to the idea of tonal music. It’s often a complex tonality. It’s not simply someone banging on the piano in C major. The idea that the new tonalists were just banging on keys over and over again, it’s simply not true. It’s like politicians talking about false voting, these things that never happened: alternative facts. I’m not working in a classical style, or a pointillistic style, or a dodecaphonic style — I’m not a Mannerist, working in the style of other people. I’m working with an individual way of hearing music.Your new symphony will debut in an era of political turmoil. Does it respond to our current moment?I’ve done quite a few operas, and probably close to a third to a half of them have political themes. It’s only really in the opera house, or in the theater, and sometimes in the dance hall, that the composer can initiate a discussion about social justice and politics. Mostly, we’re just writing. Symphony No. 11 doesn’t have any of that: It’s just about music.Are you slowing down at all as you reach 80?I have a lot more to write. I don’t know how many more years I get to write it, but I have a lot to do.
MANILA — The top police official in the Philippines said Monday that he would suspend police participation in the nation’s bloody drug war while he conducted a purge of rogue officers.But President Rodrigo Duterte said earlier on Monday that the crackdown would continue until “the last day of my term,” raising questions about whether a suspension would do anything to halt the violence.At least 3,600 people, and possibly thousands more, have been killed by the police or by vigilantes since Mr. Duterte came to power. Human rights groups have said the extrajudicial killings of drug dealers and users may have been ordered by the police, a charge officials have denied.The head of the Philippine National Police, Ronald dela Rosa, said at a news conference on Monday that the Drug Enforcement Agency would instead have the authority to pursue drug cases. He was responding to criticism after a South Korean businessman was strangled at Police Headquarters last year by officers who later extorted ransom money from his family under the pretense that he was alive.“Ready yourselves, you bad cops,” Mr. dela Rosa said. “We no longer have a war on drugs, but we now have a war on scalawags. We will clean house now.”His order came hours after President Duterte rejected calls to fire the police chief, who is one of his most loyal allies.Mr. dela Rosa said the suspension would last about a month, during which the antidrug units in the police, which has about 120,000 officers, would be dissolved and overhauled. He said he had already ordered the internal affairs service to submit a list of rogue police officers who had been cleared and for their cases to be reviewed again. He said that the purge would start in the capital, Manila, and the main island of Luzon.Mr. Duterte told an earlier news conference on Monday that rogue officers in the police force were committing crimes “on the pretext of doing the drug war.”He added: “They are now a new strain of the original big-time drug syndicates. And out of this was born corrupt officers who use warrants on the pretext that they are arresting you or searching you for drugs.”Some rights groups suggested that the suspension amounted to a public relations exercise and did not seek accountability for the thousands of deaths linked to the crackdown on drug dealers and addicts.Phelim Kine, deputy director for Asia of Human Rights Watch, said of Mr. dela Rosa: “His willful blind eye to those deaths constitutes a disgraceful betrayal of the public trust and is a telling indicator of his personal contempt for rule of law and the right to life of his fellow citizens.”Amnesty International said in a news release that the suspension, coupled with Mr. Duterte’s declaration that the crackdown would ultimately continue, ignored the root of the problem. “These contradictory statements offer little hope that the wave of extrajudicial executions that has claimed more than a thousand lives a month will end,” it said.Rights groups tied the killing of the South Korean businessman, Jee Ick-joo, 53, to Mr. Duterte’s antidrug campaign, saying that the officers had been emboldened by his promise to shield those involved in the crackdown from prosecution.During his election campaign, Mr. Duterte vowed a tough stance on crime, promising to kill 100,000 criminals in his first six months in office and dump so many bodies in Manila Bay that the “fish will grow fat.”But on Sunday, he indicated that he had underestimated the extent of the drug problem and that he would continue the campaign until the end of his tenure in 2022.
Dr. Phyllis Harrison-Ross, a pioneering black pediatrician, psychiatrist, prison monitor and mental health administrator, died on Jan. 16 in Manhattan. She was 80.The cause was lung cancer, Elinor Tatum, her goddaughter and the publisher of The New York Amsterdam News, said.Dr. Harrison-Ross was a ubiquitous presence in the mental health field in New York and nationally for more than 35 years. She was an early leader in designing rehabilitation and therapy for children with a combination of severe developmental, emotional and physical disabilities.She was also at the forefront of promoting teleconferencing to bridge gaps between doctors and patients, and what is known as televisiting, to link inmates in prisons in rural parts of upstate New York to their families in New York City and other urban areas.From 1973 to 1999, Dr. Harrison-Ross directed the Community Mental Health Center at Metropolitan Hospital in East Harlem and was the hospital’s chief of psychiatry.She helped form the New York City Federation of Mental Health, Mental Retardation and Alcoholism Services in 1975; was president of the Black Psychiatrists of America from 1976 to 1978; and was chairwoman of the New York City Directors of Psychiatry in Municipal Hospitals in the late 1980s. In 2000, she founded the Black Psychiatrists of Greater New York & Associates.Dr. Harrison-Ross served on President Richard M. Nixon’s National Advisory Council for Drug Abuse Prevention and the New York State Commission of Correction and was chairwoman of the commission’s Medical Review Board. She recently said that since 1976, she had reviewed the deaths of thousands of people in state and local custody.After the attack on the World Trade Center in 2001 and Hurricane Katrina in 2005, she mustered her colleagues to provide interfaith disaster services and became the volunteer president of All Healers Mental Health Alliance, which seeks to organize long-term responses to mental health needs that arise from natural and man-made disasters.Dr. Harrison-Ross was also an emeritus professor of psychiatry and behavioral health services at the New York Medical College. She wrote numerous articles and two books: “Getting It Together,” a textbook for junior and senior high school students, and, with Barbara Wyden, “The Black Child: A Parents’ Guide.” Of “The Black Child,” The New York Times Book Review said, “Everyone can learn something from this book.”Phyllis Anne Harrison was born on Aug. 14, 1936, in Detroit to Harold Jerome Harrison, a teacher who became deputy superintendent of the Detroit public school system, and the former Edna Smith, a social worker and professor at Wayne State University.She was accepted to Albion College in Michigan when she was 15 and graduated with a bachelor of science degree in 1956. Three years later, she was the only black woman in the graduating class of Wayne State University’s College of Medicine.Her husband, Edgar Lee Ross, died in 1996. No immediate family members survive.Last July, she was featured in an article in The Times about issues facing older people when they move to smaller living quarters. She had lived in the same large apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan for 48 years.Dr. Harrison-Ross trained as a pediatrician and as a psychiatrist, interning at Bronx Municipal Hospital and Albert Einstein College of Medicine. There she helped develop therapeutic programs for multiply handicapped preschool children at what is now known as the Rose F. Kennedy University Center for Excellence in Developmental Disabilities. New York officials replicated the programs statewide.In 2004, she received the American Psychiatric Association’s Solomon Carter Fuller Award for African-American Pioneers.
WASHINGTON — For the White House, President Trump’s first nomination to the Supreme Court is partly about getting the chance to make a second.In tapping Judge Neil M. Gorsuch for an open seat, Mr. Trump chose a candidate with the potential to reassure Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, the swing vote who holds the balance of power on the court, that it would be safe to retire.The idea is to show Justice Kennedy, 80, that should he step down at some point, Mr. Trump would select as his replacement a nominee similar to Judge Gorsuch, and not one so inflammatory or outside the mainstream as to be unacceptable to Justice Kennedy. Although certainly more conservative than the justice, Judge Gorsuch once clerked for him and has his enduring respect.Whether that White House strategy would work remains unclear. Several former clerks to Justice Kennedy said on Tuesday that they doubted it would be the decisive factor for him. But it is clear that Justice Kennedy’s status over the next four years holds enormous consequences for the future of the court. While he has shown signs of thinking about retirement, he also cares deeply about the legacy he will leave behind.The White House is not the only player engaged in the long game with this nomination. Senate Democrats now must decide how far they are willing to go in opposing Judge Gorsuch, particularly after Senate Republicans refused to even give a hearing to President Barack Obama’s last Supreme Court nominee, Judge Merrick B. Garland.Since Judge Gorsuch will be replacing Justice Antonin Scalia, the conservative anchor on the court who died last February, his confirmation presumably would not alter the ideological division. But Democrats signaled on Tuesday night that they would filibuster him rather than save that option for the next, presumably more significant nomination, as some liberals had quietly urged.“Everyone involved in the process — the president, the Senate Republicans, the Senate Democrats — needs to fight this nomination with one eye on Justice Kennedy,” said Ron Klain, a former senior White House aide who shepherded court appointees for Mr. Obama and President Bill Clinton. “His decision to retire or remain determines the balance of power on the Supreme Court.”Mr. Trump’s strategists understand that filling Justice Scalia’s seat is not as significant as replacing Justice Kennedy. “I’m sure they would dearly love to see him step down soon,” said Walter Dellinger, a former acting solicitor general. “But he would like to be replaced by a moderate. If they chose a firebrand for the Scalia seat, Justice Kennedy might be more reluctant to leave. Of course, there is no guarantee the next nominee will be like this one.”White House officials, naturally, did not voice that goal publicly. But as he left the announcement on Tuesday night, Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, said he believed that Judge Gorsuch’s nomination would reassure Justice Kennedy that the future of the court was in good hands.“I think Justice Kennedy will really enjoy serving with him, because he knows him well,” Mr. Hatch said, adding, “He might feel like it’s time to retire, too, because he’s talked about that a few times.”Appointed by President Ronald Reagan in 1988 after two choices were rejected or withdrew, Justice Kennedy has emerged as the pivotal voice on many critical issues over the past three decades. While voting with the conservative wing on economic issues like Mr. Obama’s health care program, he has sided with the liberals on social issues like abortion and gay rights.He wrote the Obergefell v. Hodges decision that established a constitutional right to same-sex marriage across the nation — a case that he and other legal scholars believe will mark his place in the history books. Some refer to the current bench as the Kennedy court because of his influence, which is all the more reason that conservatives have been eager to replace him.Justice Kennedy has been silent about his plans, but it was widely noticed by his fellow justices and other court watchers last fall that he had not hired a full complement of clerks for the next term. Some thought he was slowing down when he did not teach last summer in Salzburg, Austria, as he has for many years. Another sign was his decision to schedule his reunion of clerks, normally held every five years, one year early.But after Mr. Trump’s election, Justice Kennedy moved ahead with hiring clerks and authorized the court spokeswoman to issue a statement meant to dispute speculation that he might retire. The statement said that he had not gone to Salzburg because of conflicting family plans but would return there in 2017, and that the clerks had wanted to hold the reunion early to celebrate his 80th birthday.Although Judge Gorsuch is closer to Justice Scalia in terms of judicial philosophy, Justice Kennedy admires his intelligence and temperament, former clerks said, enough that he flew to Denver to preside over his swearing-in after President George W. Bush appointed him to the Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit.Judge Gorsuch returns the affection. At Tuesday night’s White House ceremony, he noted that he had clerked for both Justice Kennedy and Justice Byron White. “Justice Kennedy was incredibly welcoming and gracious, and like Justice White he taught me so much,” he said. “I am forever grateful.”Senate Democrats, however, found plenty of reasons to object to Judge Gorsuch, and liberal groups plan to wage a vigorous campaign against his confirmation. Senator Chuck Schumer, the minority leader, said on Tuesday night that he would insist that Judge Gorsuch be approved by the 60 votes necessary to break a filibuster rather than a simple majority of 51.It is unusual to filibuster a Supreme Court nominee, but it has been tried. When Democrats were in charge of the Senate, they made it impossible to filibuster lower court nominees but not Supreme Court candidates.If Democrats filibuster Judge Gorsuch, Senate Republicans could eliminate the filibuster for Supreme Court fights, too, making the tactic unavailable for the next nomination. Mr. Trump has already urged Senate Republicans to do so.Few imagine that Justice Kennedy finds the idea of being replaced by a Trump nominee appealing. “It’s hard for me to believe that an old-fashioned gentleman like Justice Kennedy would be impressed with Donald Trump’s vulgarity and the way he behaves,” said Daniel Epps, a former clerk for Justice Kennedy who now teaches law at Washington University in St. Louis.Like other clerks, who declined to be identified, Mr. Epps said he thought the justice was unlikely to be swayed by a nominee named by Mr. Trump. If the president had picked someone who genuinely offended him, Justice Kennedy might resolve to stick around longer, but neither Judge Gorsuch nor the other finalist would qualify, they said.“It’s not a crazy theory, but my sense of Justice Kennedy and Supreme Court justices generally is that the decision of when to leave is very personal and it turns more on what’s happening with them,” Mr. Epps said.Orin Kerr, another former clerk teaching law at George Washington University, likewise said he did not think the justice would figure Mr. Trump’s plans into his. “Just my hunch, I tend to doubt AMK would make that kind of calculation,” he wrote on Twitter.But that did not stop even the justice’s own circle from speculating. As Mr. Epps put it, “I am just as curious as you are and the rest of the world.”
Many people take glucosamine and chondroitin supplements for arthritis pain, but a controlled trial has found no evidence that the combination works. In fact, in this study, the placebo worked better.Spanish researchers randomized 164 men and women with knee osteoarthritis to take a single daily dose of 1,500 milligrams of glucosamine and 1,200 of chondroitin, or an identical looking placebo. The study is in Arthritis & Rheumatology.The researchers used a scale that shows 10 faces with increasingly pained expressions and asks patients which picture matches their degree of pain. People who took the medicines had a 19 percent reduction in pain scores after six months on the regimen. But those who took the placebo had a 33 percent reduction.On scales measuring how well the knee worked, there was no difference between the treatment and control groups.“A lot of money is spent on these drugs, and people have thought they were useful to decrease pain and increase function,” said the senior author, Dr. Gabriel Herrero-Beaumont, a professor of medicine at the Autonomous University of Madrid. “But it’s difficult to demonstrate that they work. We have not found any kind of pharmacological effect of these drugs.”
Detroit has its Mustang. Munich has its Bimmer. Bielsko-Biala will always have the Maluch.The Maluch, or little one, is officially the Fiat 126p hatchback. Drab and cramped, it lacks either girth or pretension. But it has a perversely special place in Polish hearts.“The Maluch was the beginning of an automotive revolution in Poland,” said Jacek Krywult, the mayor of Bielsko-Biala, Poland.Before the Maluch appeared, cars meant for ordinary Poles were rare, expensive and difficult to get. That changed in 1973 when the Polish manufacturer FSM began to churn out its version of the Fiat 126 under license from the Italian carmaker. Poles snapped them up, and they were soon exported throughout the Soviet bloc.“This is a car that has a soul,” said Monika Jaskolska, who runs a clothing store in the city.FSM kept on building and selling the Maluch — 3.3 million in all — before it was finally discontinued in 2000. The car developed a cult following in places as far away as Australia. But even so, city officials were rather stunned recently to stumble across evidence that the humble minicar had attracted an unlikely and highly prominent fan: Twitter posts from Tom Hanks that show him posing beside Maluchs.Delighted, Ms. Jaskolska started a drive to buy a Maluch, put it in good condition and ship it to the actor as a gift. Local companies have kicked in $2,005 for a 1974 model and another $7,250 to spiff it up. When it is finished in about four months, the car will be flown to Mr. Hanks with an invitation to visit Bielsko-Biala.“And I don’t want him to stay in a hotel, either,” Ms. Jaskolska said. “He should have a full Polish experience, and he can stay with my family.”The mayor, Mr. Krywult, finds the whole thing a bit humorous.“I’m happy that Mr. Hanks took a liking to our Maluch,” he said. “But it’s also a sign of the times: Poles now want to drive a Cadillac, and Americans want to drive a Maluch. That’s one crazy turn of events.”
Seventeen years ago, the Middle East was a more hopeful place. Newspapers were filled with accounts of peace negotiations. Israel was in the midst of withdrawing its troops from southern Lebanon, in advance of an Israeli-Palestinian summit at Camp David. It was Bill Clinton’s last year as president, and expectations were rising that he would broker the comprehensive peace agreement that had eluded his predecessors.I lived in Israel, my first assignment as an American diplomat. During my time there, I eagerly traveled across the region, taking advantage of what I realize now was a period of exceptional openness. As I neared the end of my assignment, there was only one neighboring country I had not visited: Syria, a dictatorship frozen in time and overflowing with archaeological sites. With the prospect of peace on the horizon, I was determined to visit before it became a major tourist destination.So back in April 2000, after some nimble arranging, I traveled across Syria for a week and returned to Israel satisfied with my journey. And then as I was stationed in other countries and on other continents, the trip to Syria faded into background. Years would go by without my remembering it.Then in 2016, the trip flooded back as the Syrian civil war unleashed its fury on Aleppo, my favorite of the cities I visited. I was seized with a fever to remember more. From my current vantage point — 42 years old, the father of three young children — the trip seemed ludicrous. Did I really backpack through Syria while hiding my status as an American diplomat? Of course then, it would have seemed just as ludicrous to imagine that events in Syria would become a horrific tragedy and that borders would clang shut around the world, starting with our own.As news reports about Aleppo grew worse last summer, my daily life in Chicago bumped along. It was humid, rainy and hot. Tomatoes grew like weeds and vines dangled from every bush, trying to stretch into new territory. But my mind kept returning to that trip long ago. At first I found little evidence of it in boxes of my past: no pictures or journal entries. To help jog my memory, I ordered a copy of the 1999 Lonely Planet Syria guide I had used. When it arrived in the mail, I opened to the introduction and read a passage that is now cruelly out of date: “Along with Jordan,” Syria is “probably the single most safe country for travelers in the whole of the region. The closest you’ll come to being hijacked is to be dragged off by a friendly local to drink tea and chat.”As I paged through the guidebook, details started to return. At the time, Syria refused entry to those with Israeli stamps in their passports, but I had both tourist and diplomatic passports, which helped circumvent this problem. I flew from Tel Aviv to Amman and prepared to enter Syria with my tourist passport. My diplomatic passport, filled with Israeli border stamps and residency permits, lay hidden at the bottom of my duffel bag.In Amman, I went straight to a bus depot, where I found a taxi about to leave for Damascus. It was not really a taxi — just a driver and his car, a pre-internet version of UberPool. But the driver spoke a little English and confirmed that he was leaving for Damascus right away. That was enough for me. I crammed inside with three other men, and we left Amman.I started to worry about a half-hour later when we made an unscheduled stop in a deserted village. The driver and the other passengers, who seemed to know each other, loaded the trunk with boxes. It looked suspicious.We started up again, heading for the border. Evening turned to night. Wedged between silent men in the back of the car, my thoughts kept returning to those boxes in the trunk. Had I somehow chosen a smuggler’s car for my crossing into Syria? Not good, especially with an American diplomatic passport hidden in my bag.The Jordanian countryside grew desolate, nothing but empty land as far as the eye could see. I panicked, and wondered whether I should open the car door and fling myself out. Luckily, I did not. Instead, I took out a package of Fig Newtons, bought at the American Embassy commissary in Tel Aviv.I opened the package theatrically and offered biscuits to everyone in the car. The effect was immediate.Perhaps they just needed sugar. Or maybe they had never tasted Fig Newtons. Whatever the reason, the mood changed in a heartbeat. Smiles flashed in the darkness, the radio was turned up, and rapid-fire Arabic filled the car, interspersed with the words “Fig Newton.”A few minutes later, we passed through Jordanian border control and approached the Syrian crossing, a large, well-lit building in the distance. We parked nearby; everyone climbed out with the air of people who had done this type of thing before. I got out too, but trailed behind, unsure of what to do.Then the young man who had been sitting to my right turned around and looked at me. Possibly sensing my unease, he waited for me to catch up, smiled and said “Fig Newton!” I nodded eagerly. He reached for my hand, held it tight, and we walked together like that to the Syrian border.Men holding hands in a demonstration of friendship was common during my time in the Middle East, but it was new to me. For a second I was uncertain, but then, as we walked toward the border in the dark, I felt grateful and hoped my hand was not too sweaty. My friend joked with the border guards and looked at me with a certain amount of affection. I heard “Fig Newton” in the middle of a stream of Arabic. They stamped our passports, and we were through.It was after midnight when we arrived in Damascus. The city was quiet, as was the car — we had all become sleepy. We waved silent goodbyes. I left them the package of cookies, walked to a small cinder-block hotel and passed out on the thin mattress.For the next few days, I explored the old cities of Damascus and Aleppo. I bought souvenirs. I ate frozen ice and watched the groaning water wheels in the city of Hama. I visited ancient houses where the walls were being used as cattle pens. There was more to see, and I vowed to return. On the way back to Jordan, I took an air-conditioned bus and avoided the drama of my entry.Upon my return to Tel Aviv, I put my souvenirs in boxes and started preparing for my next diplomatic assignment, to Haiti. Years passed and my memories of the trip to Syria faded away, replaced by the steady accretion of other life experiences.In recent months, I finally found the box containing mementos and letters from that era, and discovered a brass door knocker bought in a Damascus antique shop. It is in the shape of a hand with long, elegant fingers clenching what appears to be a pomegranate. I promptly installed it on the door of my study.Amid holiday cards, letters from my long-deceased grandmother, and an inexplicably saved candy wrapper, I found a blank postcard depicting the dictator Hafez al-Assad and his two sons, their heads floating in a murky green background. I also found my diplomatic passport — the one filled with Israeli stamps that had been hidden at the bottom of my duffel bag.Other memories appeared in vivid bursts. A rug merchant’s store, tucked into one of the Aleppo souk’s narrow passageways. Rugs in piles tens of feet high, covering every available space. They even covered his desk. In his sales pitch, the merchant said that the rug I had chosen could function as a “passe-partout,” framing any room to enhance its appeal. It sounded convincing, though I still do not really understand what it means.Then I remembered the oud.Walking into my wife’s office, I found the curved instrument that looks like a pear cut in half. As I held it in my arms I suddenly could picture the store in Aleppo where I bought it. The merchant was an older man, instantly wary when he saw me push open the door. We spoke in halting French. I pointed to an oud that I liked and asked him about it. He described it in basic, nonflowery terms. The gist was — it is an oud; it was made in Aleppo. I bargained to get the price down. He looked crestfallen, so I quickly agreed to the original price. Then I left. The encounter took maybe five minutes. Afterward, I walked along Aleppo’s boulevards and admired the tall apartment buildings that seemed like the very heart of the city.Like the door knocker and the postcard showing the Syrian dictators, this oud had traveled with us to every diplomatic assignment — to Haiti, to Paris, to New York, to Canada. Now it sits in our apartment in Chicago. It has left its case several times, and has never been played properly.I thought of the old man who sold it to me, and wondered whether he might have made it. It was like the completion of a thought that began 17 years ago. Again and again, I see him standing up in the dust-filled store as the bell chimes, ready to meet whoever walks through the door. The memory is so vivid that it could have happened hours ago.Something like this happened once to my father. One evening we were watching the rain pour down thick and straight. He leaned back in his chair and sank into himself for a minute. Then he looked at me and said, “The smell reminds me of Africa.” He was talking about the rain splattering into the soil, humus lifting up in waves from the ground. I could tell from his expression that he was swimming in memories. Thirty-five years had melted away and he was back in Ivory Coast as a young Peace Corps volunteer, if only for an instant.Both of us had experienced the lifelong impact of travel, the way that it can echo for decades. My trip to Syria lasted only a few days, and yet it has apparently attached to my life like a barnacle. It clings to me, mostly forgotten, but once in a while it asserts its presence. The result is an upswelling of memory so strong that it feels like time travel. It is the umami of life, infusing ordinary days with unexpected flavor.Memories of travel can linger for a lifetime. But it gets even better. Memories bestow the same benefits as the original trip: They build empathy, broaden perspectives, and remind us, again and again, of our common humanity. They help rattle the cage of assumptions we build through the years. Most of all, they are a gift we give to ourselves — a transfer of spirit from our younger, fresh-eyed versions to the people we are right now.
WASHINGTON — President Trump on Friday afternoon approved a sweeping executive order that suspended entry of all refugees to the United States for 120 days, barred Syrian refugees indefinitely, and blocked entry into the United States for 90 days for citizens of seven predominantly Muslim countries: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. It also barred green card holders from those countries from re-entering the United States, the Department of Homeland Security said, though the administration said exemptions could be granted.Here are some major excerpts from the executive order, with comments by The New York Times. The full text of the order is available here.Most of the 19 hijackers on the planes that crashed into the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and a field in Shanksville, Pa., were from Saudi Arabia. The rest were from the United Arab Emirates, Egypt and Lebanon. None of those countries are on Mr. Trump’s visa ban list.The nation’s founding principles, as reflected in the Declaration of Independence, included dissatisfaction with what were said to be overly restrictive immigration practices.“There is no statutory requirement that noncitizens entering the United States support the Constitution,” said Peter J. Spiro, a law professor at Temple University. “The executive order seems to suggest that even temporary visitors like tourists and students should support the U.S. Constitution, which doesn’t make a lot of sense.”This provision is the key to the power Mr. Trump claims. It says: “Whenever the president finds that the entry of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be detrimental to the interests of the United States, he may by proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may deem to be appropriate.”The provision “gives the president capacious authority to deny entry to any alien or class of aliens,” Professor Spiro said. “No court has ever reversed a presidential order under it.”But he added, “In terms of the number of prospective immigrants involved, this is by far the most significant use of the power by any president.”Some critics say the order runs afoul of a later law that bars discrimination “in the issuance of an immigrant visa because of the person’s race, sex, nationality, place of birth or place of residence.”The tension between the two laws has not been definitively resolved by the courts. Jennifer Chacon, a law professor at the University of California, Irvine, said that a challenge to the executive order based on the later law’s equal-protection principles was the most promising line of attack.In an opinion article in The New York Times, David J. Bier, an immigration policy analyst at the Cato Institute, a libertarian group, said Mr. Trump had at least violated the spirit of the later law.“Even if courts do find wiggle room here, discretion can be taken too far,” Mr. Bier wrote. “If Mr. Trump can legally ban an entire region of the world, he would render Congress’s vision of unbiased legal immigration a dead letter.”The countries are Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen.These exceptions are mostly for diplomats, people traveling to the United Nations in New York, and others involved in international organizations.The initial list may soon change and expand.This provision suspends all admissions of refugees, not limited to the seven countries.As a general matter, this will give priority to Christian refugees over Muslim ones. Though framed in a neutral way, this part of the order may raise questions of religion-based discrimination. Mr. Trump has said that he means to favor Christian refugees.That violates the First Amendment’s ban on government establishment of religion, according to David Cole, the legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union. “One of the critical questions with respect to the validity of executive action challenged under the Establishment Clause is its intent and effect,” he wrote in a blog post. “If intended to disfavor a particular religion, it violates the Establishment Clause.”This effectively expands the ban on immigrants from Syria.This cuts the cap on refugees in half.
Even if President Trump’s industrial-policy-by-Twitter-post fails over the long run to create jobs or prevent companies from moving offshore, there’s a good chance that it will appear, at first, to be a success.But this is a dangerous illusion, the result of companies responding strategically to the new president’s threats. And it could lead to more bad policy if voters or policy makers draw the wrong conclusions.That’s why it’s important to understand precisely how these new policies are likely to shape the numbers over the next few years. Some simple economics can help.Mr. Trump has taken to Twitter to name and shame manufacturing firms planning to relocate some of their production lines overseas. His attacks on Carrier, on Toyota, on General Motors have made their chief executives squirm and, in some cases, have produced what appear to be results. Carrier, for instance, has promised to keep some of the jobs it had planned to send offshore in the United States. Other companies have recycled old announcements of their domestic expansion plans.At first glance, pressuring a handful of companies seems unlikely to have much impact in an economy as large as that of the United States. Imagine that you are a chief executive of a company that has not been a Trump target; there are so many companies in the country that the risk of yours being denounced by the president is tiny. At least that’s what the math shows.But the psychological reality is very different. Research has shown that people often overreact to insignificant risks, especially when the risks are so vivid. Just as it is almost certain that you won’t get eaten by a shark this summer, it is a near certainty that the vast majority of companies won’t end up in Mr. Trump’s cross hairs. Yet the fears persist, and people take greater precautionary measures than the actual threat warrants.Moreover, Mr. Trump is targeting the asset that corporate bosses tend to protect most jealously: their personal reputation. Which makes them edgy.So far, the evidence bears this out. There are plenty of anecdotes suggesting that Mr. Trump has executives running scared. Some are hiring communications and crisis managers. Few have been willing to announce the sort of plant closings that might put them in the harsh glare of the president’s spotlight.But this doesn’t mean that Mr. Trump’s tweets have saved jobs. At least not in a lasting sense.To see why not, put yourself in the shoes of a C.E.O. You’re not just deciding whether to send production offshore; you also need to decide when to act. This gives you a relatively cheap way to avoid the president’s ire: Mothball your blueprints for the new overseas factory, but don’t burn them. When the political threat passes — and, eventually, it will — just dust them off and move.If enough companies follow this script over the next couple of years, the number of factory jobs in the United States should stabilize, or even rise. Mr. Trump’s eventual successor may well inherit a manufacturing sector that is superficially stronger, though it will hide an underlying weakness: thousands of C.E.O.s ready to move production offshore. As soon as Mr. Trump leaves the stage, several years worth of pent-up demand for offshoring may erupt, and as these plans are followed and factory jobs return to more normal levels, expect a sharp drop in manufacturing employment.Now imagine what all this will look like to a future policy wonk. Manufacturing jobs seemed to be scarce before Mr. Trump’s tenure, improved while he was at the helm, and then shrank sharply as soon as he left office. It might seem as though his angry tweets actually caused manufacturing to thrive.But it would be a mistake to infer that businesses really perform better when threatened. Rather, the fluctuating jobs numbers reflect the ease with which cuts can be delayed, not prevented. Sure, a delay is, in itself, good news for factory workers who keep their jobs a little longer, but it doesn’t address their longer-term problems.Indeed, many economists, both Democrat and Republican, fear that Mr. Trump’s policy of naming and shaming will hurt the manufacturing sector in the long run. After all, the point of the exercise is to allocate workers and machines based on presidential diktat, not market forces. He is pushing corporate leaders to please the White House, rather than their customers and shareholders.The cost of hiring crisis managers to deal with Mr. Trump raises the cost of doing business just as surely as a tax hike would. By making it more expensive to leave the market, he also creates a disincentive for foreign companies thinking of building plants in the United States.The difficulty with trying to use the bully pulpit to create a lasting change in corporate behavior is that words — even a president’s — don’t much alter a company’s bottom line. Corporate decisions are driven by the balance of costs and benefits, and the benefits of offshoring are typically large and enduring.Still, for short periods, even relatively minor incentive shifts can cause large reactions when what is involved is merely a delay, not fundamental change. For example, imagine two people who love Cancún and have decided to vacation there; if the cost of a flight rises by $100, they will go anyway, because the cost isn’t enough to deter them. But if the airfare rises by $100 on Sunday, the day they had planned to go, but was to remain at the original price on Monday, the travelers may well decide to wait a day. So fewer people may fly to Mexico on the weekend, when it’s more expensive, yet there will be no long-term impact on travel. Temporary policies often look as though they have disproportionately large effects, but they aren’t meaningful.That is the odd truth here: Mr. Trump’s approach may appear to have had a big effect precisely because it’s not viewed as a permanent solution. In fact, the more temporary his threat-based industrial policy is thought to be, the more likely it is that chief executives will delay job cuts until the climate changes. Perhaps corporate bosses are currently pliant because they expect that this storm will pass.But bad economics can be good politics. We may see some spectacular short-run effects, even if Mr. Trump undermines the long-run competitiveness of America’s factories. The political upside will be obvious in the monthly employment numbers, while the economic downside will be difficult to disentangle from the decades-long trend of declining factory jobs. Yet we shouldn’t be deluded. C.E.O.s will ultimately move jobs abroad if that’s what it takes to churn out profits.
ALBANY — When Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo unveiled plans this month to make state colleges free for middle- and low-income New Yorkers, he seemed to find a path to instant popularity. There was approval from both the left (Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont) and the right (Republicans in the State Senate).But as legislators and education advocates parsed the governor’s budget in a hearing on Tuesday, elements of the tuition proposal came under greater scrutiny, with the governor’s office moving to counter concerns about the program’s cost, scope and impact on private colleges.A legislative analysis suggested that as few as 32,000 students could benefit from the state scholarship, a fraction of the hundreds of thousands that the governor’s office initially said it could impact.And for some of the nearly 150 nonprofit private colleges in the state, the governor’s plan has raised questions about their survival.The budget proposal threatens to strip state funding from private institutions that fail to keep their yearly tuition increases under $500 or the higher education rate of inflation, whichever is greater. (That rate is about 2.3 percent.) Starting in 2018, New Yorkers who choose to attend private colleges that do not comply with the cap would not receive tuition grants from the state’s tuition assistance program, known as TAP, which covers students with incomes up to $80,000 a year.Mr. Cuomo did not mention the proposal in last week’s budget briefing. About 90,000 students at private colleges currently qualify for state tuition assistance, according to the governor’s office.“You’re not giving the student the money that would help them with the choice of where they want to go to school,” Mary Beth Labate, the president of the Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities, which represents many of the state’s private, nonprofit institutions, said in an interview.The change will likely hit hardest the small private colleges that recruit students mainly from New York State and rely mostly on tuition for their operating budgets. With State University of New York and City University of New York campuses becoming free for many more students, private liberal arts enrollment is probably likely headed for a drop.Private, nonprofit colleges “leverage their aid dollars to make education possible for needy students,” said Margaret L. Drugovich, the president of Hartwick College, a small liberal arts college in Oneonta. “The governor’s proposal limits the choices for these students. Why should we do this? What societal goal does this advance?”Hartwick, where 40 percent of students receive state tuition assistance, charged $42,050 in tuition this academic year, a 3.5 percent increase from the previous year.Larger institutions such as New York University and Cornell, which draw a larger share of out-of-state students and depend far less on tuition payments, may find their financial aid packages for in-state students, who would otherwise bring state tuition assistance, growing more complex.“We’re saying, if we’re going to give you a state subsidy, don’t take the state subsidy and run with it to increase tuition,” Jim Malatras, the governor’s director of state operations, said in an interview. “Some of these schools have increased tuition pretty dramatically over the last few years.”But Ms. Drugovich said this math was misleading. Since tuition assistance is given as a fixed grant from the state, with colleges covering much of the rest of a student’s financial aid package, the state’s subsidy was not driving tuition up, she said.“Our students get very little state support,” she said, adding that the state’s total funding for private institutions amounts to about $650 a student.Ms. Labate said private colleges often set their tuition in a way that allows them to subsidize the actual price for the students who need help. She added that private institutions are often among the top employers and economic drivers in their regions, an argument likely to resonate with lawmakers, whose biggest headaches often are creating and keeping jobs.Many legislators seemed sympathetic to Ms. Labate’s members, even as they emphasized the need to keep college affordable.“I don’t think we should be restricting where students can go, but there seems to be some concern on many people’s part about the cost of private institutions,” said Senator Diane J. Savino, a Staten Island Democrat.Assemblywoman Deborah J. Glick, a Manhattan Democrat who is the chairwoman for the Assembly’s higher education committee, and Senator Catharine Young, the Western New York Republican who is chairwoman of the Senate’s budget committee, wondered aloud whether the governor’s proposal would drive private colleges out of business.While private colleges fretted, lawmakers grumbled that the impact of the public tuition proposal — known as the Excelsior scholarship — had been overestimated.The governor’s office first suggested that nearly a million New Yorkers could qualify, then clarified that the number of students most likely to actually receive tuition-free education would be closer to 200,000.But on Monday, the Assembly’s own analysis stated that the actual number of students most likely to receive assistance would be 32,000. Assemblyman James Skoufis, a Hudson Valley Democrat, called the discrepancy “either a disconnect or a misdirection” by the governor’s office.A spokesman for the governor’s office, Richard Azzopardi, called Mr. Skoufis “long on rhetoric and short on facts.”Mr. Malatras explained that the 32,000 covered students who otherwise would not receive any state or federal tuition assistance because of their families’ higher incomes, and that the program would ultimately help many more students who already receive some form of aid.
For the past eight years, the Obama administration has waged a battle against predatory for-profit colleges. On Monday, the Department of Education released a final salvo — a list of hundreds of college programs that load students with more debt than they can afford to repay.The failing-program list included ITT Tech, which filed for bankruptcy under federal pressure late last year, as well as industry leaders like Kaplan University and the University of Phoenix. And there — among a host of local graphic design, fashion, cosmetology and barber schools — is Harvard University.The fact that such a world-famous institution of higher learning was caught in a regulatory net devised to protect students from exploitative trade schools suggests that even the most prestigious colleges may not be paying enough attention to whether their degrees are worth the price of admission.The Obama administration’s rules on for-profit colleges are based on two statistical measures of individual programs: how much money typical program graduates are required to spend on student loan payments every year, and how much they earn in the job market two years after graduation. If this “debt-to-earnings ratio” is too high for multiple years — if graduates need to spend too much of their income paying down loans — then the program is ruled ineligible to receive federal financial aid.Republican members of Congress and people working with the incoming Trump administration have called for rolling back the for-profit college regulations. Harvard’s inclusion suggests it might make sense to expand the rules to include nonprofit programs with similar problems.The Harvard program is run by the A.R.T. Institute at Harvard University (A.R.T. stands for American Repertory Theater). It’s a small program, admitting about two dozen students each year into “a full-time, two-year program of graduate study in acting, dramaturgy or voice pedagogy.” On average, graduates earn about $36,000 per year.The problem, from a regulatory standpoint, is that they borrow a lot of money to obtain the degree — over $78,000 on average, according to the university. The two-year tuition total is around $63,000. And because it’s a graduate program, students can also borrow the full cost of their living expenses from the federal government, regardless of their credit history.After accounting for basic living expenses, the average Harvard A.R.T. Institute graduate has to pay 44 percent of discretionary income just to make the minimum loan payment.Because the regulations put the program’s federal aid eligibility at risk, the A.R.T. Institute will not be enrolling any new students this fall, said David Cameron, a spokesman from Harvard. This temporary pause in enrollment will be used to “evaluate the program and undertake vital strategic planning to address, among other things, student funding mechanisms.”The government list of failing programs also includes numerous Art Institutes schools. They are a for-profit chain — with no relation to the Harvard program — that expanded rapidly across the United States in the 2000s only to suffer in recent years from a string of problems, including shrinking enrollment, multiple closed campuses, lawsuits, government investigations and financial woes. The Department of Education recently shut down the accrediting organization that keeps The Art Institutes and many other for-profits eligible for federal aid.The for-profit Art Institutes programs that failed the federal test trained students in fields including commercial photography, video production, radio broadcasting, culinary arts, interior decorating and video game design. Other programs that crop up frequently on the failing list include cosmetology and barbering, acupuncture and massage therapy, criminal justice studies and low-level jobs in health care fields.What these programs have in common is a combination of marketing appeal to young people — design video games for a living! — and little or no outside pressure to ensure that the education is both of high quality and leads to jobs that pay enough to finance the cost of student loans. Sure, there are good programs in all of these fields, including some offered by for-profit schools. But it can be very hard for the average consumer to know the difference beforehand.Running a sound program can be done. The Department of Education regulations were used to evaluate over 600 licensed practical nursing programs. Not one of them failed the debt-to-earnings-ratio test. That’s because most are offered at affordable prices by public community colleges, and the L.P.N. field is carefully monitored by health care regulators and the nursing profession itself. Program graduates usually leave with little debt and consistently earn salaries of $30,000 to $50,000 a year.So while some failing programs are simply bad programs, providing slipshod training and credentials with little value in the labor market, others may be very good, but are just too expensive. Presumably, that was the case with the A.R.T. Institute at Harvard, which was also caught by a quirk in the regulation. It was evaluated in the first place only because its two-year graduate degree was classified as a “certificate,” not a traditional master’s degree.There are hundreds of master’s of fine arts programs out there, training people for careers as writers, actors and artists. Many of them also charge hefty tuition and leave graduates with substantial debt. Nobody tracks how much students borrow to attend these programs, or how much they earn after graduation. The same is true for most other master’s programs, law schools and more. But because they happen to be located at nonprofit colleges, they’re not subject to the Department of Education regulations.Many Republicans have criticized the for-profit regulations for singling out one sector in a larger industry. Virginia Foxx, the North Carolina congresswoman who leads the House of Representatives education committee, has introduced legislation that would repeal the rules.But it might make more sense to expand the regulations to include for-profit and nonprofit colleges alike. Higher education is a market, and markets function only if consumers have adequate information. Harvard is the world’s richest university and spends hundreds of millions of dollars a year on financial aid. If it needed a nudge from the government to re-evaluate its affordability policies, that suggests that many other colleges need one, too.
It began in the morning, with a small crowd chanting and holding cardboard signs outside Kennedy International Airport, upset by the news that two Iraqi refugees had been detained inside because of President Trump’s executive order.By the end of the day, the scattershot group had swelled to an enormous crowd.They filled the sidewalks outside the terminal and packed three stories of a parking garage across the street, a mass of people driven by emotion to this far-flung corner of the city, singing, chanting and unfurling banners.This was the most public expression of the intense reaction generated across the country by Mr. Trump’s polarizing decision. While those in some areas of the country were cheered by the executive order, the reaction was markedly different for many in New York. References to the Statue of Liberty and its famous inscription became a rallying cry.Similar protests erupted at airports around the country.Word of the protest at Kennedy first filtered out on social media from the immigrant-advocacy groups Make the Road New York and the New York Immigration Coalition. It seemed like it might stay small.But the drama seemed to rise throughout the day.There was the release of Hameed Khalid Darweesh, one of the two Iraqi refugees who had been detained, who said the United States was the greatest country in the world.“This is the humanity, this is the soul of America,” he said, surrounded by reporters and a handful of protesters holding supportive signs. “This is what pushed me to move, leave my country and come here.”Just past 3 p.m., a man with a social media megaphone gave it a blow. “Everybody in NYC area — head to JFK Terminal 4 NOW!” Michael Moore said on Twitter. “Big anti-Trump protest forming out of nowhere!”People were pouring in. Photos traveled far and wide on social media and on cable networks like CNN, which reported live from the protest.By sundown, the crowd had grown into the hundreds or more, spreading along the parking apron and onto the three floors of the parking deck overlooking the terminal. They shouted downward in unison with the crowd.Passengers with baggage-laden carts squeezed in and around knots of people as they headed to and from the terminal. One group of four people, apparently with a flight to catch, simply abandoned their cart in the parking lot and rolled their bags to the unoccupied end of the terminal.Cabdrivers joined in, with their union, the New York Taxi Workers Alliance, calling for an hourlong work stoppage for drivers serving the airport during the height of the protest.There were moments of tension.In the evening, people complained on social media that they were being prevented from boarding the AirTrain, the link from the subway to the airport. Photos circulated of police officers standing in front of the turnstiles.Alison Brockhouse, 33, said she had arrived around 7 p.m. and had been told that the police were letting only people with airplane tickets onto the public transportation system. “I was a little incredulous at first,” she said. “I’ve never really seen anything like this.”The Port Authority wrote in a post on Twitter, “AirTrain JFK controls in place for public safety, due to crowding conditions.”But Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat, stepped in amid a rising drumbeat of anger at an AirTrain station.“I have ordered the Port Authority to reverse its decision regarding the JFK AirTrain,” Mr. Cuomo said in a news release put out shortly after 8 p.m. “The people of New York will have their voices heard.”Still, the minutes ticked by at the AirTrain station, as the police refused to let people through even after the announcement, Ms. Brockhouse said. There was a moment where it was not clear if the large crowd would be able to attend the protest. But about 15 minutes later, the police stepped aside, and the crowd was let past.
This week President Trump revived a ban on providing foreign aid to health providers abroad that offer abortion counseling as part of their family planning services. Caitlin Parks, a family planning fellow at Washington University in St. Louis, provides reproductive health services to women at clinics and a teaching hospital in western Kenya. Her clinics receive American funding, and she says that the ban, called by critics the global gag rule, could have a major impact on poor women and communities like the ones she serves.This Q. and A., which is based on an online response and phone interview, has been edited and condensed.Mostly impoverished, many with H.I.V. or other medical conditions that make pregnancy complicated or risky.Many of the women rely on agriculture and small plots of land for both their food and their income. This is an area that has a high rate of H.I.V. and has for many years, and so there is quite a large population of H.I.V. positive women and families that have been greatly affected by H.I.V. There is a high rate of orphans and a need for extended family for support.There are lots of women as the primary supporters of their children and their extended family.Their biggest need is full-spectrum reproductive health care, including contraceptive and sometimes abortion services, as well as full maternity care.One of the things that is a challenge in the system of reproductive health care is that for many people they don’t necessarily know that they need it until they are faced with an unplanned pregnancy. One of the biggest killers in sub-Saharan Africa is maternal mortality, and lots of these people don’t necessarily know that they need to protect themselves from that. So they aren’t necessarily seeking out contraceptive care until it’s too late — they have an unplanned pregnancy that might affect their life.Both to have healthy lives and economically to be able to support their families, limiting and spacing pregnancies is incredibly important.The major reason is lack of access to care. Here in the U.S., we take being pregnant as being much safer. In the U.S., we have a clinic and easy access to a facility if a woman needs it. There are no ambulances in large swaths of the area that we serve, so if someone does have a complication from a pregnancy they die much easier than in the U.S.The same goes for abortion. We know, regardless of whether we agree or disagree with it, that they will occur. Here in the U.S., because it is legal and we have better access, we know that we can obtain a safe abortion. There, for women who do have an abortion, it is much more likely to be unsafe and lead to both health- and life-threatening conditions.And we know certainly that the only way to prevent life- and health-threatening conditions from a pregnancy or an abortion is to make contraception available to all women.Abortion is illegal in Kenya. The biggest thing for us is the fact that there are certain conditions within Kenyan law that allow it to be performed – both health and life conditions. But the U.S. ban is not clear. Sometimes, there is an interpretation that we could refer for an abortion, if they are in a health-threatening condition. The other interpretation is only if life threatening. That difference between health and life threatening is problematic. It scares providers from talking about it at all, even in cases when it could be both health and life threatening.For other institutions, in countries where abortion is legally available, it prevents them from performing or referring for abortion services.No matter where you are in the world, the most important thing is to be able to make these decisions with a woman and her doctors as to what they think is the most important and safest thing for a woman and her body, and not to be guided by blanket rules that are not guided by patient care.When we have something, like the global gag rule, it doesn’t allow for some of the nuances that are important for making those individual decisions. Even if it would be allowed, no one will even discuss the possibilities because the entire topic is silenced.She was a young woman with a dangerous heart condition that requires medication that would pose risks to a developing fetus. She thought that she could not become pregnant because of her condition and had previously been unable to afford birth control. When she became pregnant, she was afraid of becoming sicker and dying, leaving her young children orphaned. She needed access for a safe, legal abortion.We were able to provide her a referral for a safe abortion within our own organization.This ban would mean that we would not even be able to give her information about where to go, leaving her to find some other unsafe means of obtaining her needed health care.
OTTAWA — Gunmen opened fire in a mosque in the city of Quebec on Sunday night, killing six people and wounding eight others in what Prime Minister Justin Trudeau called a “terrorist attack on Muslims.”Étienne Doyon, a spokesman for the Quebec police, told reporters at the scene that the attack on the mosque, the Islamic Cultural Center of Quebec, had occurred around 8 p.m. At a news conference early Monday the police confirmed the six fatalities and said that two suspects had been arrested.The attack shook Canada, a country where mass shootings are uncommon, and came as the country has become known as a beacon for refugees fleeing warfare and terrorism in Muslim-majority nations.Mr. Trudeau assailed what he called “this terrorist attack on Muslims in a center of worship and refuge.”“It is heart-wrenching to see such senseless violence,” he said in a statement early Monday. “Diversity is our strength, and religious tolerance is a value that we, as Canadians, hold dear.”Christine Colombe, a spokeswoman for the Quebec Provincial Police, said the victims ranged in age from 35 to 70 and said that 39 people who were in the mosque were not hurt.The police had not yet identified a motive in the shootings, saying the investigation was just beginning. Ms. Colombe said that one of the two suspects was arrested at the scene of the shooting, while another was apprehended nearby in d’Orleans.The police said that some of those wounded in the shooting were seriously hurt.On Twitter, Martin Coiteux, the provincial minister of public safety, said that “the police systems for dealing with terrorist acts have been activated” in the wake of the shooting. “Ensuring the safety of the population is our priority,” he wrote.Radio-Canada, the French-language service of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, said the area surrounding the mosque had been sealed off by the police after the attack.Last June, a pig’s head was left at the door of the mosque in the middle of Ramadan. Practicing Muslims regard pork as unclean and do not eat it.The president of the mosque, Mohamed Yangui, was interviewed on Ici RDI, a French Canadian broadcaster. He was not at the mosque during the shooting but said that people who were present had told him that one gunman was able to reload his weapon several times.He said he had been told by witnesses that the gunmen had entered on the ground floor and had gone to the second floor where women pray, but he did not know whether any women were in the mosque at the time.The attack came after Mr. Trudeau said that Canada stood ready to continue welcoming refugees from terrorism and war and as President Trump’s executive order on immigration stranded people around the world and provoked condemnation that it was directed at Muslims.In the wake of the Quebec shooting, the New York City police stepped up protection of mosques, Mayor Bill de Blasio said on Twitter.About 765,000 people live in the city of Quebec, and 6,760 of them identified themselves as Muslims during the last national census.Mr. Trudeau posted a message on Twitter on Saturday welcoming refugees to Canada and included a photograph of himself with a child under the hashtag #WelcomeToCanada. Since Mr. Trudeau took office in late 2015 the country has admitted nearly 40,000 refugees, many of them fleeing the war in Syria.Canada’s warm embrace of Syrian refugees has won the country accolades at home and abroad, but is not without its domestic opponents. A survey in Ontario last summer found that while there was widespread support for accepting the refugees, only a third of respondents had a positive impression of Islam, and more than half felt its mainstream doctrines promoted violence.Anti-Muslim incidents have been on the rise in Canada, with several minor incidents reported in Quebec during the past year.A Montreal mosque and a Sept-Îles Muslim community center were slightly damaged in separate arson attempts in December, and the head of the Association of Muslims and Arabs for a Secular Quebec received online death threats the month before.The increasing tension led a member of Parliament, Iqra Khalid, to put forward a motion in the national House of Commons in December calling on the government to condemn Islamophobia and request a study on how the government could combat the trend. The motion will probably be voted on when the House returns to session this week.In the wake of Sunday night’s attack, the premier of the province of Quebec, Philippe Couillard, said that solidarity rallies were planned on Monday for people to express their concern about the shootings.“We are with you. You are at home,” he said, in words directed at the province’s Muslim residents.
A group of brain performance centers backed by Betsy DeVos, the nominee for education secretary, promotes results that are nothing short of stunning: improvements reported by 91 percent of patients with depression, 90 percent with attention deficit disorder, 90 percent with anxiety.The treatment offered by Neurocore, a business in which Ms. DeVos and her husband, Dick, are the chief investors, consists of showing movies to patients and interrupting them when the viewers become distracted, in an effort to retrain their brains. With eight centers in Michigan and Florida and plans to expand, Neurocore says it has assessed about 10,000 people for health problems that often require medication.“Is it time for a mind makeover?” the company asks in its advertising. “All it takes is science.”But a review of Neurocore’s claims and interviews with medical experts suggest its conclusions are unproven and its methods questionable.Neurocore has not published its results in peer-reviewed medical literature. Its techniques — including mapping brain waves to diagnose problems and using neurofeedback, a form of biofeedback, to treat them — are not considered standards of care for the majority of the disorders it treats, including autism. Social workers, not doctors, perform assessments, and low-paid technicians with little training apply the methods to patients, including children with complex problems.In interviews, nearly a dozen child psychiatrists and psychologists with expertise in autism and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, or A.D.H.D., expressed caution regarding some of Neurocore’s assertions, advertising and methods.“This causes real harm to children because it diverts attention, hope and resources,” said Dr. Matthew Siegel, a child psychiatrist at Maine Behavioral Healthcare and associate professor at Tufts School of Medicine, who co-wrote autism practice standards for the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry. “If there were something out there that was uniquely powerful and wonderful, we’d all be using it.”Neurocore rejects any suggestion that its treatments do not work as advertised. Dr. Majid Fotuhi, Neurocore chief medical officer, said, “There is significant research to support the efficacy of neurofeedback for a variety of mental and behavioral health issues.”Ms. DeVos, whose appointment as education secretary is expected to be voted on Tuesday morning by a Senate committee, had said she would leave Neurocore’s board, but would retain her investment in the company, which she valued at $5 million to $25 million, according to documents filed this month with the Office of Government Ethics.Last Friday, a group of Democratic senators sent Ms. DeVos a letter saying that her financial disclosure raised questions about potential conflicts. The senators were skeptical of the DeVos family trusts, and also raised questions about Neurocore, which called itself educational in a trademark dispute. The lawmakers asked Ms. DeVos if she would commit that she and her family members would not “benefit financially from actions” she could take in her new role.At Neurocore’s clinics, children and adults with A.D.H.D., anxiety, depression, autism and other psychological and neurological diagnoses sit before monitors watching movies or television shows ranging from “Frozen” to “Mad Men,” with sensors attached to their scalps and earlobes.Whenever they become distracted or anxious, the video automatically freezes. That feedback, known as conditioning, leads the vast majority of clients, company officers say, to experience improvements in their disorders after 30 45-minute sessions costing about $2,000. Some insurers cover the treatments, while others have denied payment.One denial concerned a 50-year-old woman with anxiety and migraines. The insurance company noted that it covered biofeedback for only a few conditions. An outside review commissioned by the Michigan insurance department supported the decision that biofeedback was not, in her case, an established therapy or medically necessary.Experts said that thus far, studies of neurofeedback for attention deficit disorder were unconvincing. It “isn’t shown to be better than placebo, and the effects are not long-lasting,” said Sandra K. Loo, director of pediatric neuropsychology at the David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles, who has written about neurofeedback and quantitative EEG, a brain-wave test that Neurocore performs as part of its diagnosis.“People pay a ton of money,” Dr. Loo said. “They’re desperate to help their kids. Many are desperate to not give medications.”Dr. L. Eugene Arnold, an emeritus professor of psychiatry at Ohio State University who is enrolling children in a large, blind, controlled trial of neurofeedback — the main approach Neurocore says it uses in its sessions — said the idea was theoretically appealing, but there was not yet solid evidence of its effectiveness for A.D.H.D. Neurocore’s claims for the treatments “poison the well,” he said. “They oversell it.”He and other experts warned of potential side effects including headaches and disrupted sleep.Federal oversight of the field is minimal. “When it comes to treatments like this, there’s no formal body,” said Scott O. Lilienfeld, a professor of psychology at Emory University. “This has been a big problem. We don’t have an F.D.A. for psychotherapies,” he said, referring to the Food and Drug Administration.Over the past year, the Federal Trade Commission has begun to crack down on some companies promoting the successes of brain training programs for treating a variety of problems.Last January, Lumos Labs, the creator of Lumosity games, agreed to pay a $2 million fine over advertising claims that said its educational-oriented games could help children perform better in school by targeting specific areas of the brain. A few months later, the F.T.C. imposed sanctions on the developers of the LearningRx “brain training” programs for advertisements that claimed its product could “permanently improve serious health conditions” like A.D.H.D., autism and dementia.At Neurocore, patients range from young children with A.D.H.D., to older adults who are concerned about memory health, to athletes wanting to improve their performance. Neurocore promotes its ties to the Orlando Magic, which is owned by the DeVos family, and other professional athletes have appeared in advertisements for the company.Dr. Fotuhi, Neurocore’s chief medical officer, said that there were no physicians on site at the clinics, but social workers supervise lower-level technicians, who administer the neurofeedback. Employment ads show that Neurocore’s social workers are offered less than $20 an hour to start, yet are responsible for diagnostic assessments of patients with complex problems.One technician, Bashar Salah, who worked for Neurocore as a new college graduate during the summer of 2015 in Sterling Heights, Mich., said some of his colleagues were still students. He earned $10 or $11 an hour, he said, “better than working at McDonald’s or Wendy’s, or a lot of other places that paid roughly minimum wage.”Mr. Salah said he had known nothing about biofeedback before starting the job, but received training at Neurocore, where the employees seemed “interested in improving people’s lives.”Amanda Farmer, who said she worked as a technician at a Neurocore center in Okemos, Mich., for eight months in 2012, watched potential clients get a hard sell.“A lot of people were skeptical, and they gloss over any of the real questions: ‘Are you sure? This seems like a lot of money. What happens if it doesn’t do anything?’” Ms. Farmer recalled. Other current and former employees expressed similar misgivings.Experts say there is not much standardization in the field of biofeedback, and techniques vary.Dr. Fotuhi has impressive credentials: an M.D. from Harvard and Ph.D. in neuroscience from Johns Hopkins. However, his short-lived previous venture, NeurExpand Brain Centers in Maryland, folded after Medicare refused to reimburse services and demanded repayment for lack of scientific evidence of their effectiveness, Dr. Fotuhi said in 2015 to Bethesda Magazine.In an interview, Dr. Fotuhi said Neurocore’s chief executive officer, Mark Murrison, who has been at the company for about two years, “has an emphasis on research and development and using science-based protocols.” He said the company would be publishing its results in peer-reviewed scientific literature soon.“We are proud that our clients are highly satisfied with the care they receive and that we are able to help transform the lives of our clients for the better,” Dr. Fotuhi added in a statement.Ms. DeVos maintains her interest in Neurocore even as she said she would divest from 102 companies and investment funds, including a family vehicle that backs business start-ups. Ms. DeVos and her husband are invested in Neurocore through Windquest Group, their family office.Experts said that Ms. DeVos, as a result of the investment, might have to recuse herself from discussions about the efficacy of using brain-training strategies to help school-age children. A spokesman for Ms. DeVos, however, disagreed that her stake in Neurocore was problematic.“We reject the notion that the judgment of the Office of Government Ethics is incapable of identifying potential conflicts of interests, or that the judgment of the professionals who work there should be supplemented or supplanted by personal opinions and partisan recommendations,” said Ed Patru, a spokesman for Ms. DeVos.Ms. DeVos is expected to receive enough votes from the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee — and eventually the full Senate — for confirmation. The nomination of Ms. DeVos, an outspoken critic of public education who favors charter schools, has antagonized supporters of public schools and prompted some protests.Neurocore is the creation of Timothy G. Royer, a licensed psychologist with a master’s degree in theology, who served as division chief of pediatric psychology at the Helen DeVos Children’s Hospital in Grand Rapids, Mich.Originally called Hope 139, after Psalm 139 from the Bible, the company marketed itself to schools — especially religious ones — in Michigan to help children improve academic scores and lessen the need for medication to treat certain ailments.Ms. DeVos and her husband began supporting the company in 2008, for a time hosting the company in the offices of Windquest.The company’s next step, Dr. Fotuhi said, will be to start 12-week boot camps to “help the elderly with memory problems.”
MELBOURNE, Australia — Rafael Nadal completed a slate of throwback singles finals at the Australian Open, beating Grigor Dimitrov, 6-3, 5-7, 7-6 (5), 6-7 (4), 6-4, in a battle of 4 hours 56 minutes that started Friday evening and ended at 12:44 Saturday morning.In Sunday’s final, Nadal, 30, will face his longtime rival Roger Federer, 35, a nostalgic counterpoint to the women’s championship match between Venus Williams, 36, and Serena Williams, 35. Nadal and Federer have not met in a Grand Slam final since the 2011 French Open.Against Dimitrov, Nadal saved three break points in a tightly fought fifth set, including two at 3-4. With a backhand winner down the line, he earned the crucial break in the next game to go up by 5-4 and serve for the match. On Nadal’s third match point, Dimitrov’s final backhand landed long to end a 13-shot rally, and Nadal fell to the ground in relief.“Difficult to describe the emotions,” he said in his on-court interview. “First of all, I was tired.”That last point was emblematic of how the ninth-seeded Nadal managed to outlast the 15th-seeded Dimitrov, time and again showing his superior physicality in the longest exchanges. The two were more evenly matched on shorter points, but of the 64 points that lasted nine or more shots, Nadal won 39.Dimitrov, 25, had reached only one previous Grand Slam semifinal, at Wimbledon in 2014, but he rarely seemed daunted by the occasion. Already 10-0 to start the year and a title in Brisbane to his name, Dimitrov frequently displayed improved power and consistency in the match, even as it wore on into the fifth set, striking 79 winners to 45 for Nadal.But he could not match Nadal’s ability to turn defense into offense; few can. Dimitrov’s one-handed backhand was particularly exposed by Nadal’s attacks and counted for the majority of his forced and unforced errors.“It’s never easy to lose a match like that,” Dimitrov said. “I’m happy, though, with a lot of things. I’m going to stay positive and keep my head up high. For sure, Rafa deserves pretty much all the credit right now since he’s such a fighter, such a competitor. At the same time it was an honor for me to play a match like that against him. It also shows me that I’m in a good way, I’m on the right path.”Nadal started the match with dominant serving, winning 90 percent of points on his serve in the first set. But in the second set, Nadal dropped serve three times and Dimitrov twice.Dimitrov, former top-10 player who tumbled to 40th last summer, held firm after Nadal won the third set in a tiebreaker. Neither player faced a break point in the fourth set, won by Dimitrov in another tiebreaker.Nadal, a 14-time major champion, last reached a Grand Slam final at the 2014 French Open, which he won. He last reached a final in Melbourne earlier that year, losing to Stan Wawrinka.Nadal has missed large stretches of competition in recent years because of various injuries, including a wrist ailment that forced him out of the French Open and Wimbledon last year.“I never, ever dreamed to be back in a final of the Australian Open, the second tournament of the year, after a lot of months without competing,” Nadal said on the court after the match. “But here I am, and I feel lucky, and I feel very, very happy.”Sunday’s match will be the ninth Grand Slam final between Federer and Nadal, and their second here. In their previous one in 2009, Nadal beat Federer, 7-5, 3-6, 7-6 (3), 3-6, 6-2, a match perhaps best remembered for Federer’s tearful runner-up speech in the trophy ceremony.That final was also preceded by an epic semifinal for Nadal, who needed 5 hours 14 minutes to put away Fernando Verdasco in five sets.Federer, the No. 17 seed, needed five sets Thursday to take his semifinal against Wawrinka, but that match was nearly two hours shorter than Nadal’s win Friday.Nadal has won 23 of 34 matches against Federer, and 9 of 11 meetings at Grand Slam events. Nadal’s 14 Grand Slam titles is second among active players, behind Federer’s 17. Federer has not won a major tournament since Wimbledon in 2012.“It’s special to play with Roger again in a final of a Grand Slam,” Nadal said. “I cannot lie. It’s great. It’s exciting for me, and for both of us, that we’re still there and we’re still fighting for important events.”The women’s final Saturday night also will feature the two active players with the most Grand Slam singles titles, with the 22-time winner Serena Williams meeting her sister, the seven-time winner Venus Williams. This is the first Grand Slam tournament in the Open era in which all four singles finalists are 30 or older.
Coming off their second five-day break of the month, the Rangers had the upstart Columbus Blue Jackets waiting for them at Madison Square Garden on Tuesday.Back in uniform for the hosts was the steady defenseman Marc Staal, who had missed nine games because of a concussion, and Antti Raanta, Henrik Lundqvist’s understudy, who had not played since he was injured in his last start, Jan. 14 at Montreal. But Raanta figured to keep his spot at the end of the bench for the game.Enter the pesky Blue Jackets, who earlier this season won 16 games in a row. They are led by the former Rangers coach John Tortorella and are solidly in playoff position.Tortorella started the backup goaltender Joonas Korpisalo, who passed an early test by making five saves after the Rangers had a power-play chance 11 seconds into the game.Then it was the Blue Jackets who scored first, as defenseman Seth Jones floated a shot from the right point that eluded a screened Lundqvist at 3 minutes 53 seconds of the first period. Columbus scored five more times before the Rangers forged a goal, and the Blue Jackets finished with a 6-4 win.Lundqvist kept his comments succinct after the contest.“I know I need to be better,” he said.Surrendering an early goal has been a persistent problem for Lundqvist this season — it was the sixth opening-shot goal he has allowed, and the eighth for the team in 50 games.In the second period, the game became an outright disaster for the Rangers as Columbus scored four more times.Brandon Saad made it 2-0 after 1:06 with his 17th goal of the season, and Alexander Wennberg made it 3-0 with another soft goal at 3:42. This led to Raanta donning his mask and replacing Lundqvist — the fourth time this season Lundqvist has been pulled.“That third goal is a killer,” Lundqvist said. “That’s something that bothers me.”Columbus kept swarming the out-of-sync Rangers. Jones scored again to make it 4-0 at 12:52 before Nick Foligno snapped the puck past Raanta at 16:04 to give the Blue Jackets a 5-0 advantage.Center Derek Stepan said he had no explanation for the Rangers’ dreadful second period. “A good team like Columbus will make you pay,” he said.The margin increased to six when Matt Calvert scored for Columbus at 1:49 of the third period, and the Rangers appeared ready to skate for the exits.But Jimmy Vesey, Michael Grabner and Chris Kreider scored in a three-and-a-half-minute span to slice the deficit in half.Rangers defenseman Kevin Klein added one more goal at 18:53 of the third, but Korpisalo held on his third win of the season, a 33-save performance. The victory illustrated why the Blue Jackets (33-12-4) are 7 points ahead of the Rangers (31-18-1) in the standings, with one fewer game played.The loss was another letdown after a break for the Rangers, who were coming off a five-day All-Star Game hiatus. After an earlier break, from Jan. 8 to 12, they stumbled in a 4-2 home loss to Toronto on Jan. 13.Lundqvist spent this second January respite snorkeling in the blue water of the Turks and Caicos with his teammates Mats Zuccarello and Mika Zibanejad. The 34-year-old Lundqvist — who, like Rangers Coach Alain Vigneault, is chasing an ever-elusive Stanley Cup — has had an inconsistent season. He has performed solidly at times, shining lately in a 1-0 win on Jan. 22 at Detroit and a 3-2 home victory over the Los Angeles Kings the next night. But he has been shockingly unsteady in other games, allowing seven goals over two periods to the Dallas Stars in a 7-6 home loss on Jan. 17.The Rangers’ desultory performance came on the same day that Vigneault spoke of being awarded with a two-year contract extension, through the 2019-20 season.“I’ve never been more driven than I am at this point,” the 55-year-old Vigneault said before the game. “It’s my job to improve the team.”The Rangers had won eight of their last nine games against Columbus, including a stirring 5-4 comeback on the road on Jan. 7.But the fiery Tortorella, who coached the Rangers from 2009 to 2013, has injected new life into a franchise that has made the postseason just twice in its history and has never won a series.“It’s a young team, and it’s my job to get them to the next level,” he said. “We have a long way to go.”Slap ShotsAlain Vigneault coached his 296th career game with the Rangers, passing Phil Watson for sixth place in franchise history. … The Rangers face the Blue Jackets twice more, Feb. 13 at Columbus and Feb. 26 at the Garden.
Cornell University Library has just made its Loewentheil Collection of African-American Photographs — 645 rare images dating from the 1860s through the 1960s that show a slice of American life not widely visible or preserved — available online. Donated to the university by Stephan and Beth Loewentheil  in 2012, the collection includes famous faces, like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Muhammad Ali, but mostly historical images of African-Americans going about their daily business or commemorating occasions like graduations and weddings.“One of the goals — both the Loewentheils in putting the collection together and ours in putting the digital collection online — is to push back against the predominance of material on African-Americans as enslaved people or working in menial jobs or other stereotypical situations,” said Katherine Reagan, a curator of rare books and manuscripts at Cornell. “We wanted to show a broader swath of people in everyday settings.”The people and places in many images are unknown, but Ms. Reagan said the collection has been of increasing interest to researchers. “You can learn a lot by how the person is dressed or situated,” she said. “These images are tantalizing for what they show, but also what they don’t show.”
HOUSTON — One day in November, a 7-year-old Iraqi boy wrote a postcard to Santa Claus, drew small hearts at each corner and dropped it into a red holiday mailbox at a suburban mall here. The card had the penmanship of a first grader, yet the longing of a refugee: He asked not for toys but to make his family — separated and devastated by war and violence — whole.“Dear Santa, can you Bring my Dad from Sweden pls,” the boy wrote. His father, whom the boy had not seen in person for three years, was living in Stockholm while waiting for the United States to officially declare him a refugee and to allow him to reunite with his wife, son and other relatives now living in the Houston area.On Friday, the boy’s mother kept a secret from him: His wish was about to come true. His father, a Baghdad-born accountant named Haider Sameer Abdulkhaleq Alshawi, had received the necessary paperwork and was on a flight to Kennedy International Airport in New York, the first leg of a journey to Houston.But a few strokes of a presidential pen threw the lives of Mr. Alshawi and his family into chaos.While Mr. Alshawi, 33, was on the plane, President Trump signed an executive order suspending the entry of all refugees into the United States for 120 days. Mr. Alshawi was detained at Kennedy by the authorities on Friday evening, setting off a legal battle as lawyers for him and another detained Iraqi refugee sought their release.“I’m really breaking down because I don’t know what to do,” said Mr. Alshawi’s wife, tears streaming down her cheeks, as she sat in the living room of her sister’s house in a Houston suburb on Saturday morning. “It’s not fair.”After hours of negotiations by lawyers and the intervention of two members of Congress from New York, Hameed Khalid Darweesh, the other Iraqi refugee who was caught up in immigration limbo at Kennedy, was released early Saturday afternoon, after spending nearly 19 hours in detention.About six hours later, after an anxious and tear-filled day for his relatives in Houston, Mr. Alshawi was set free and allowed to continue his travels toward a reunion with his family.“I was so happy — crying from the happiness,” said his wife on Saturday night, shortly after a jubilant FaceTime call between Mr. Alshawi in New York and his relatives in Houston. Asked if she had a message for Mr. Trump, Mr. Alshawi’s wife replied, “No, actually.” Then she added, “Not all Muslims are terrorists. He should know that.”Mr. Alshawi’s wife, 32, is an Iraqi-born woman who met her husband while both were students at a Baghdad college and who came to the United States as a refugee in 2014. She asked to be identified by her first initial, D. She and her brother and sister, who are also Iraqi refugees who resettled in Houston, asked that their full names not be used because they were concerned that publicity about the case would lead to harassment in the United States and could put Mr. Alshawi’s life at risk.D. worked for the United States in Iraq, as did her brother. She was an accountant for a security contractor that worked with the American military there. Relatives said the family has paid a price for cooperating with the United States. D.’s sister’s husband was killed in a car bombing in Baghdad in 2010 that relatives said was meant to threaten the family.D. and her son now live at her sister’s house, and early Saturday morning before dawn, relatives crowded the living room in their pajamas and slippers as cellphones rang every few minutes. Later in the day, when they got the phone call they were waiting for, the people in the house erupted in laughter and cheers. “He was just jumping,” she said of her son.By the evening, he was still excited. His father’s flight into Houston was set to land Sunday morning.“So,” his mother asked him from across the room, “your Santa wish is coming true?”
At Kennedy International Airport on Tuesday afternoon, a refugee family of five arrived on an 18-hour flight from Africa and, unlike others who had hoped to enter the country over the weekend, was soon standing outside the airport, watching as snow fell like confetti.These refugees were not from the group of seven predominantly Muslim countries named in President Trump’s executive order on immigration, but from the Democratic Republic of Congo; after fleeing gunshots from rebel fighters in their district of Uvira in 2010, they had spent six years in a refugee camp in Malawi.The exemption that allowed for their entry had been coordinated with the State Department during the turmoil after Mr. Trump’s order suspending the arrival of refugees for 120 days. According to a State Department official who spoke on condition of anonymity, the order allowed for exemptions to admit refugees “when in the national interest and when they do not pose a risk to U.S. security or welfare, including for certain religious minorities and certain refugees in transit.”Church World Service, one of the nine resettlement agencies in the nation that contract with the State Department, said 872 refugees had been approved for resettlement before the end of the day Thursday.At Kennedy Airport, the family waited alongside other refugees from Congo. Some were headed to North Carolina, and others to Connecticut, also to be resettled by Church World Service.The family members were aware of the order when they landed and were relieved that they had made it in time. “Thank God — because we couldn’t believe that,” said Masumbuko, 38, standing in Terminal 4 with his wife, Roza; his two daughters, Nathalie, 20, and Kwizi, who turns 13 on Wednesday; and their 8-year-old son, Leo. “We are so happy.”Church World Service, which was resettling the family, asked that their last name not be published because of fears for the family’s safety.The family was heading north to the Hudson Valley, where Christ Episcopal Church and Vassar College — both in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. — had arranged for their resettlement.Despite support from 1,200 volunteers from 30 organizations, Vassar Temple, Masjid al-Noor Mosque and seven local colleges, a protest and death threat surfaced online.Still, there were only smiles, hugs and shouts of welcome when the volunteers from Christ Church met the family at the Stewart International Airport parking lot near Newburgh, N.Y.“It’s a testimony to all the people in the church and in the community who made this happen,” said the Rev. Susan Fortunato. “Quite honestly, if I can take a small professional stand, it was a little faith and maybe divine intervention that made sure that these folks could get in before the borders were closed for refugees.”The trip from Kennedy Airport was subdued, as if the passing landscape in white and gray made the trip that much more surreal. The van was provided by the International Organization for Migration. The driver, Jimmy Yu, immigrated to the United States from Hong Kong in 1991.For six years, Masumbuko, who goes by the nickname Masu, explained, they lived in a house with a thatched roof and mud walls, in a camp of more than 20,000 people with refugees from Somalia, Rwanda, Ethiopia and Burundi. Masu was a nurse who routinely delivered babies — including twins, three times. Roza worked sewing clothes.Masu said their first interview to get to the United States was in March 2011, when they registered as refugees. They had more interviews, including screening by the United Nations High Commission for Refugees in 2014, interviews with immigration officers of the United States, and health and final security clearances.They were approved for relocation in October 2016. From then, they had cultural orientation sessions in Malawi, as they prepared to embark to their new home.The final interview was after the family deplaned at Kennedy. Customs and Border Protection, which in the previous two days had detained visa holders and permanent residents in what was a scene of chaos at airports worldwide, asked Masu several questions about his reasons for leaving Congo, his line of work and his family.Both his father, a village elder, and his brother, a priest, were murdered by rebels in 1996. Masu had become the director of the nursing department at a hospital, which made him a target for rebel groups, he said.One week after gunmen entered his house looking for him, he moved his family to Malawi.His move to the United States was made possible by a group called Mid-Hudson Refugee Solidarity Alliance. A German history professor at Vassar College, Maria Höhn, first had the idea in 2015 and consulted with a refugee group in Connecticut that was working with Church World Service.On Tuesday, Sarah Krause, a senior director at Church World Service, acknowledged that this celebratory day was bittersweet. This was the first family, and would probably be the last, they could receive in the Hudson Valley.“This 120-day ban is going to make it very hard to keep this office open,” Ms. Krause explained. “Without any refugees to the office, we won’t have any funding. We will do everything that we can to maintain the capacity of the office and without question will provide services for this family.”Some immediate financial assistance is provided by the government. Masu hopes to begin working as a nurse, but he does not know how to drive a car. Volunteers took the family to their new apartment, first passing a string of fast-food chains. At the McDonald’s sign, Masu shrugged and confessed he had never heard of it.When volunteers drove up to their two-bedroom apartment, Leo got out of the car, gingerly took a few steps onto the snow and took off running to the door. Volunteers had stocked the refrigerator and the cabinets with food. The table was set for five, with flowers.“Magnifique!” Roza exclaimed, beaming.
Amid protests and legal challenges over President Trump’s immigration order, the White House also found itself on the defensive this weekend about a normally routine statement about International Holocaust Remembrance Day that drew criticism and scorn.The statement released on Friday failed to mention Jews or anti-Semitism, something that past presidential statements had done without fail.Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, defended the language in a Sunday interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” telling the host, Chuck Todd, “I don’t regret the words.”Mr. Priebus continued, “I mean, everyone’s suffering in the Holocaust including obviously, all of the Jewish people affected and the miserable genocide that occurred — it’s something that we consider to be extraordinarily sad.”He added: “If we could wipe it off of the history books, we would. But we can’t.”The original statement, released on Friday, was dedicated to the “victims, survivors, heroes of the Holocaust,” but did not specifically mention the approximately six million Jews who were exterminated by the German regime.The statement also failed to specifically mention the Roma, the disabled, the gay people and other groups that were targeted on political and ideological grounds, including communists and socialists.On Saturday, Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for the president, had told a CNN reporter that the wording was intentional because the administration is “an incredibly inclusive group and we took into account all of those who suffered.”She called the issuance of the statement “an honor.”During the interview with Mr. Priebus, Mr. Todd read aloud from a column by John Podhoretz, the editor of the conservative magazine Commentary and a former Reagan speechwriter, who called the comments by Ms. Hicks “abominable.”“The Final Solution was aimed solely at the Jews,” Mr. Podhoretz wrote, while acknowledging other groups were also killed by the Nazis. “To universalize it to ‘all those who suffered’ is to scrub the Holocaust of its meaning.”The White House statement also drew strong criticism from Senator Tim Kaine of Virginia, Hillary Clinton’s running mate.“This is what Holocaust denial is,” Mr. Kaine said on “Meet the Press.” “Many Holocaust deniers acknowledge: ‘Oh yeah, people were killed, but it was a lot of innocent people. Jews weren’t targets.’”
Nov. 13 is the one-year anniversary of the death of Nohemi Gonzalez, the only American among 130 killed in the terrorist attacks in Paris.Nohemi was on a semester abroad, trading in 15 weeks at California State University, Long Beach, for an experience at Strate School of Design in Sèvres, outside of Paris. She was the first in her family to attend college — a Mexican-American industrial design student on her way to becoming one of just over 15 percent of young Hispanics who hold a bachelor’s degree.On the night she was killed, she was enjoying the City of Light like a Parisienne, in a lively bistro on Rue de Charonne, perhaps toasting her Cal State design team, which, she had just learned, placed second in a competition for efficient packaging of snack food. The packaging would decompose, leaving no trace behind.It is hard to truly know this student from public comments. The language of grief exalts and reduces the dead with larger-than-life words. She is described by friends as “always happy,” “beautiful” and “a bright spirit.” Her own Facebook posts give a sense of a more particular Nohemi: “Learning a 3D modeling computer program in a language I don’t know is up there in the top three hardest things I’ve ever had to do.” (The reader can’t help but wonder what the other two hard things were.)In interviews soon after the attack, Nohemi’s mother sometimes used the present tense to describe her daughter: “She loves school,” she said, adding that “Nohemi wanted a different life from most of our people who just go to work and come home. She wanted a career.”Reading about Nohemi’s short life reminded me of many of my students at Johnson State College in Vermont, where I recently retired as president. Vermont is as different from California in its demographic makeup, size and economy as two states can be, and yet her story could have been theirs. Some of my students had never held a passport or even left our state; like Nohemi, they took their first plane rides while in college, exiting wide-eyed onto foreign lands.“I can go anywhere now,” one student told me after returning from Greece, as stunned as she was newly confident. Finding your way home on the metro in another country is one thing; doing so on your first metro ride ever is a triumph.Like Johnson State, Cal State Long Beach is one of 400 regional colleges and universities educating 40 percent of the nation’s undergraduates. These “middle children” of public higher education — not a community college, not a state flagship — are oft-forgotten (and seldom celebrated) microcosms of their states. Nohemi might have thrived anywhere, but Cal State Long Beach, whose enrollment is 95 percent Californian and more than one-third Hispanic, seems to have fostered a keen awareness and responsibility of place (her place) and given her not only a context in which to flourish, but also the confidence to venture beyond its borders.Nohemi had only begun her journey, but her sense of adventure might serve as a beacon for young people with limited family resources as they set out to discover worlds apart from their own.In some ways, she was a typical study-abroad student. According to the Institute for International Education’s Open Doors report, of the 304,500 Americans who studied in another country in 2013-14, 67 percent were women. Approximately 21,000 students, or 7 percent, were focused on fine or applied art.In other ways she was atypical: Nearly 75 percent of Americans who study overseas are non-Hispanic white, and disproportionately from private schools. Despite the opening up of federal financial aid to support study abroad, international study is still more available to students with greater family resources.Nohemi would have beaten many odds, and we root for people who defy statistics and set new paths. Will Cal State students follow hers? I asked Dean Jeet Joshee, who oversees international study at the university, if he was seeing any drop in interest in study abroad since her death. He said that students tell him they will not be deterred from their plans.Of course, study abroad is not without its risks. Foreign students in Rome are frequent targets of robberies, including one last summer that ended in the death of an American student in an exchange program at John Cabot University. But such highly publicized deaths may skew our perceptions.The president of the Institute for International Education, Allan E. Goodman, has often said that getting to the airport in the United States may be the most dangerous part of studying abroad. Paradoxically, he says, he is asked by parents from other countries if they should keep their children from coming here to avoid the risks inherent in a country in which guns are rampant.Indeed, students are about twice as likely to die at their home campuses than in another country, according to the Forum on Education Abroad, which established a database of incidents in 2014. That year, 313 incidents were reported, 80 percent of them an illness; gastrointestinal ailments were a major culprit. Four deaths — two accidental, two from pre-existing medical conditions — were also reported by study-abroad insurance providers. The 2015 incidents report will include Nohemi Gonzalez’s death.As unlikely as Nohemi’s death was, it was not random. Her assassins did not set out to kill a Mexican-American design student in particular, but they did set out to murder what she represents: the freedom of pleasure, choice and agency.Colleges are brave institutions. They must be part of the forces that shape the lives of young adults during their most alert and seeking years. As parents and educators, it’s our job to ensure that we protect these freedoms for our young people — here, at home — and instill in them the values and responsibilities that such liberties require. Then we can set them free, and hope it’s enough.Most students who return from a semester or more of international study report greater maturity and a clearer understanding of their own values.Living and learning in another culture is more important than ever — for the individual students, of course, but also because the empathy such experiences foster is crucial in maintaining a safer, more loving world. No other single experience comes as close to building a new perspective on citizenship and place as study in another country. Nothing.Nohemi’s brief immersion in that experience made her life, I am convinced, a larger one. This was a woman who refused to be constrained by tradition or circumstance. She chose knowledge instead of ignorance. She chose to imagine a future for herself.That she did not get to inhabit that future breaks our hearts but not our resolve to leave our homes and expand our notion of citizenship and belonging.
Despite the growing protests against President Trump’s executive action on refugees and other people from seven predominantly Muslim countries, relatively few members of his party have spoken out against the policy — a familiar pattern since the election. To date, no congressional Republicans have consistently resisted Mr. Trump or his agenda even though his approval ratings are already historically low for a new president.Although some Republicans may fear a voter backlash in the midterm election, the greatest threat to re-election for most G.O.P. members of Congress is still a primary challenge. That’s what many legislators probably fear they will get if they oppose Mr. Trump, who is viewed overwhelmingly favorably among their partisan base, according to polling data.There have been several Trump policies once opposed by top Republicans that many now support or at least will not actively resist. House Speaker Paul Ryan said in 2015 that a proposed Muslim ban “is not what this party stands for, and more importantly, this is not what this country stands for.” He now backs the current executive order; all seven affected countries have Muslim majorities.Before Mr. Trump’s move Friday, Republicans went to great lengths to change the subject to avoid commenting on the president. To help deflect questions from reporters last week, Senator Thom Tillis even brandished a puppy. This pattern continued over the weekend. On Saturday, reporters noted that G.O.P. congressional Twitter feeds had gone quiet and that numerous top officials were not answering press inquiries.While many Republicans face risks if they publicly oppose the president, relatively few have to worry about being defeated in a general election. In the House of Representatives, for instance, only a small number of party members represent districts won by Hillary Clinton. For most of them, a primary challenge is a far greater threat — one that several anti-Trump Republicans are already anticipating. Republicans are also heavily insulated from public opinion in 2018 Senate races, which feature only two G.O.P. incumbents who are seen as potentially vulnerable in the general election.Polling data collected by Morning Consult among more than 85,000 registered voters since the election (but before the travel executive order) demonstrates why Republicans are likely to stick with the president even if others turn against him. Over all, 47 percent of registered voters had a very or somewhat favorable view of Mr. Trump, while 48 percent had a very or somewhat unfavorable view.However, 54 percent of registered voters in districts represented by Republicans viewed Mr. Trump favorably compared with only 42 percent who view him unfavorably. More important, people who identify with the party overwhelmingly view him favorably. In districts represented by Republicans, fully 87 percent of registered Republicans view Mr. Trump favorably.Support for Mr. Trump in G.O.P. districts is even higher among registered Republicans who are extremely interested in politics (94 percent favorable), identify as strong Republicans (92 percent favorable) or say they are very conservative (94 percent favorable). These groups are especially likely to vote in primaries and are key constituencies in nomination contests for higher office. As a result, they wield disproportionate influence on legislator behavior.Given these incentives, it is unlikely that most Republicans will turn on Mr. Trump at this stage. Even when George W. Bush’s approval ratings dropped to 25 percent just before the 2008 election, for instance, more than 60 percent of Republicans approved of his performance in office, which limited the incentive of elected officials from the party to repudiate him or his agenda.Similarly, the support Mr. Trump commanded from Republican voters induced nearly all members of the G.O.P. establishment to embrace him after a campaign in which almost none of them endorsed his candidacy. Republican voters and elected officials then overwhelmingly stuck with Mr. Trump after the release of the “Access Hollywood” tape, following an initial flurry of defections. Even an American intelligence report that President Vladimir Putin of Russia directed a campaign to influence the election on Mr. Trump’s behalf did not dent his support within the party. It would be a surprise if the G.O.P. fully broke from the president anytime soon.Morning Consult data was collected from Nov. 10, 2016, to Jan. 25, 2017, among a national sample of 85,832 registered voters. The interviews were conducted online, and the data was weighted to approximate a target sample of registered voters based on age, race/ethnicity, gender, educational attainment and region.
Jiving to the Bee Gees sure didn’t look like this when John Travolta did it in “Saturday Night Fever.” Still, for arresting choreographic interpretations of that movie’s anthem, “Stayin’ Alive,” it’s hard to top the Slavic folk dance moves that enliven a scene toward the end of “Our Secrets,” a harrowing musical tragicomedy out of Hungary, which runs through Sunday at the Baryshnikov Arts Center.Like much of this drolly paradoxical piece from the Budapest-based Bela Pinter and Company, that scene is both very funny and downright pathetic. What’s being portrayed is a romantic evening for two that involves a lovingly prepared dish of tripe and, yes, folk dancing to “Saturday Night Fever” as a precoital tease.But it’s hard to sustain a disco groove when the music keeps speeding up and slowing down, making the Bee Gees sound as drunk as the couple listening to them. And then there’s the little matter of the state police’s bursting in just as the couple have gotten down to erotic business.Talk about buzz kill. Written and directed by Mr. Pinter, who also appears as the man caught with his trousers down, “Our Secrets” sets the moral conflicts of Hungarian life in the early 1980s to a score unlike anything to be heard on a Broadway musical stage.You might think of this unsettling and imaginative production as a sort of perversely animated mixtape — a metaphor confirmed by the presence of a giant reel-to-reel recorder on the back wall of the set. But the soundtrack (mostly performed by a cast that doubles as its own orchestra and chorus) isn’t only melodic.It also includes the voices of people revealing damning personal secrets, such as one man’s confession to his therapist of his sexual attraction to his 7-year-old stepdaughter. Privacy is clearly not among the luxuries afforded by the Communist state. Nor, for that matter, is having friends you can trust.“Our Secrets” covers thematic territory that was memorably mined by “The Lives of Others,” the Academy Award-winning 2006 film about love, East German-style, in the age of state surveillance. But Bela Pinter and Company, an internationally renowned theater troupe seen here at the Lincoln Center Festival in 2009, gives the material its own distinctive and dizzying spin.The show follows the collisions and collusions within a group of Budapestians who devote their leisure time to dancing to Hungarian folk music. Chief among them is Istvan Balla Ban (a heartbreaking Zoltan Friedenthal), an anthologizer of such music, and his best friend, Imre Tatar (Mr. Pinter), who have other extracurricular pursuits they prefer to keep to themselves.Istvan is a pedophile; Imre is the editor of a revolutionary samizdat magazine. These are alter egos of which party officials, whose ears are everywhere, can make strategic use. Without giving too much away, it seems fair to reveal that in this world, pedophilia is perceived as by far the more forgivable sin.As you may have gathered, “Our Secrets” is a play without heroes. It also suggests that no life, perhaps, could emerge as entirely heroic beneath the magnification of constant surveillance, a chilling thought for the era of Snowden. The script refuses to allow us to comfortably identify with, or unconditionally condemn, any of its characters.Even the gargoyle apparatchik Comrade Panczel (a cross-dressed and brilliant Eszter Csakanyi), the epitome of institutionalized evil, is revealed to be a lonely soul. And his blundering overtures to the tormented Istvan provide the play with one of its more bizarrely poignant scenes.The multifarious cast members combine raw psychological realism with Dickensian grotesqueness. (The play is performed in Hungarian with English supertitles.) They include Hella Roszik and Zsofia Szamosi as the frustrated women in Istvan and Imre’s lives; Szabolcs Thuroczy as the dance center’s cutup in residence; and Eva Enyedi and a wonderfully deadpan Angela Stefanovics as the children who become the objects of Istvan’s monstrous desire.The show is annotated throughout with folk ballads suffused with what might be described as a festive melancholy. “Complaining gives your heart relief,” goes one of them.Well, only up to a point. In “Our Secrets,” music is ultimately less cathartic than contaminating. And I can promise that if you see it, you will never again be able to listen to a certain ethereal Bach melody with innocent ears.
By Kris D’Agostino. 289 pages. Scribner. $26.There’s not a sluggish moment in Kris D’Agostino’s second novel, which, like his first, follows a family in crisis. Just when you think he’s overdone things a bit — the approach of a massive hurricane, a dying father, estranged siblings, financial turmoil, the threat of a redemptive ending with tears and hugs — the narrative strands unfold with plenty of dark comedy. The Westfalls own an antiques store in upstate New York, but they might lose it after the death of their patriarch, George. Family members are forced to confront their troubles and one another. The callous, ethically challenged Josef, whose sex addiction and infidelity killed his marriage, faces bankruptcy if a big business deal falls through; his sister, Charlie, lives in Los Angeles, where she works for a tantrum-prone movie star and pops antidepressants like Tic Tacs; and the sensitive Armie (“unmarried, unfocused, demoralized, penniless”) still lives at home in his parents’ basement. Their mother, Ana, doesn’t know what to make of any of them: “She’d envisioned specific lives for her children and it stung to see reality dash those grand designs.” The siblings’ reunion sets off rounds of score-settling and the reopening of old wounds, and the author lets them play out with sharp, funny dialogue that never seems formulaic. More impressively, he conveys the disorienting and ever-shifting effects of grief.By Kathleen Rooney. 287 pages. St. Martin’s. $25.99.New Year’s Eve, 1984: an 85-year-old woman in a mink coat and wide-brimmed navy-blue fedora strolls around Manhattan, encountering colorful characters as she revisits her past and beloved former haunts. Her reverie takes her back to her early years, working as a pioneering copywriter for R. H. Macy’s. Lillian Boxfish was once the highest-paid female copywriter in the country, and a popular light-verse poet who published several books. It’s an unlikely story based on a real one: the remarkable life of Margaret Fishback, an outspoken protofeminist who also met the demands of her era by being a wife and mother. Lillian is given a rich interior life by Ms. Rooney. As a young woman, Lillian is tough and ambitious, and a regular presence in the society pages. Known for her mordant wit, she’s indifferent to propriety and scornful of romantic love. (She prefers the ease of one-night stands.) As she recalls her glamorous days in advertising, along with darker personal struggles to come, she laments the current state of the city — squalid, crime-infested and on edge, thanks to the Subway Vigilante. Undeterred by lurking dangers, she insists on roaming the streets for miles each day. “I am old and all I have left is time,” she says, adding, “Time to kill until time kills me.” Lillian’s wide-ranging meditations are reason enough to read this charming novel, but it’s also like taking a street-level tour through six decades of New York.By Rob Doyle. 188 pages. Bloomsbury. $26.In these 13 stories by the Irish writer Rob Doyle, a sunny disposition is nowhere to be found. It’s a collection saturated with nihilism. Nearly all the characters are men, several are writers, and all suffer from failures of some kind — literary neglect, listless sexual encounters, creative impotence. In the opening story, “John-Paul Finnegan, Paltry Realist,” the narrator listens uneasily to his friend Finnegan rant against Ireland, claiming that no one has ever actually read “Ulysses,” while he chugs a concoction he calls the Guinnskey (Guinness with a shot of whiskey). As Finnegan rages on, he proclaims himself the practitioner of a bold new genre, paltry realism — “which, for the time being, consists solely of me” and involves “writing rapidly, and yes, even writing badly, in fact only writing badly,” as he denounces the “vanity” of writing well. In “Paris Story,” a failed novelist, envious of his friend’s success, writes a cruel review of her work that haunts him for years. “On Nietzsche” recalls the narrator’s obsession, years ago, with writing a book about Nietzsche, a project he cannot complete. Elsewhere, an aspiring writer suffers “a prolonged psychic unraveling” when he accepts, finally, that he will never write like Martin Amis. A few of the stories seem slight, like clever vignettes. More often than not, though, Doyle plumbs the bleaker aspects of literary life with startling precision and candor.By Shanthi Sekaran. 472 pages. Putnam. $27.The plight of undocumented immigrants is nothing new, but in our current political moment the issue has acquired a fresh urgency, its implications more tragic. Along with trenchant observations of privilege and power, Sekaran delves fearlessly into rape, infertility, adoption, identity politics and more. She captures — in harrowing, moment-by-moment detail — the treacherous border crossing of 18-year-old Soli, who makes it from Mexico to California and finds work as a housekeeper and nanny for a wealthy Berkeley family. Her precarious existence is further complicated by the birth of her son, Ignacio, whom she’s raising as a single mother while earning around $200 a week. In catastrophic ways, Soli’s narrative will collide with the story of an affluent Indian-American couple, Kavya and Rishi, whose bedroom comes to signify a “theater of failure” after they are unable to conceive. In pitting two very different kinds of immigrants against each other — one comfortably assimilated, the other helpless in every sense — Sekaran offers a brilliantly agonizing setup. “When you have just one possession,” Soli says, “you guard it with your life.” Although a number of brutal events occur in this exceptional novel, comic relief is found throughout — namely in the clumsy and often baffling attempts of Soli’s new boss, Mrs. Cassidy, to bond with her: “Help yourself to anything in the kitchen. O.K.? Mi casa es su casa. Or whatever.”
In so many two-character scenes, a moment comes when you wonder: Why are these people still in the room together? Shouldn’t she have left? Shouldn’t he have called security? Is this some strange parallel doorknob-less universe?In the third iteration of “AdA: Author Directing Author,” an evening of one-acts at La MaMa, there are moments of such doubt in the Italian playwright Marco Calvani’s “After the Dark” and the Spanish playwright Marta Buchaca’s “Summit,” which have both been given fine, playable translations.In “After the Dark,” a post-menopausal designer of furniture and lighting, Susie (Margaret Colin), and her young assistant, Jessie (Gabby Beans), are sharing a hotel room on the night before an important trade show. Mr. Calvani’s pert dialogue plays with the oppositions of youth and age, fecundity and sterility, dominance and obligation, and the women take turns controlling the conversation.Under Ms. Buchaca’s direction, many of the shifts in dynamic compel, although an unthinking equation of sexual desirability and power needs more scrutiny. And why Jessie, who is paid starvation wages, doesn’t exit the job and the room is anyone’s guess.In the otherwise absorbing “Summit,” it’s a puzzler why a new mayor (Dalia Davi) doesn’t order her predecessor (Victor Slezak) escorted out of what is now her office. She keeps insisting she has a lot of work to do, but he stays around, needling her, belittling her and insisting they take a selfie together. Under Neil LaBute’s direction, a few details feel off. Would a mayor really arrive for her first day at the office in stretch pants and a leather jacket?But Ms. Buchaca’s play is so topical that it resists analysis. The spectacle of a female candidate competing against a self-serving, bloviating male one still feels way too raw. (A central metaphor revolves around Edmund Hillary, for goodness’ sake.) It also offers the notion, now quaint, that one careless tweet could destroy a political career. If only.Let’s say this of Mr. LaBute: We always know why his characters stay in the room, or, as in “I Don’t Know What I Can Save You From,” at the cafe. He’s a master at ratcheting up the tension and risk. But here he returns to his frequent and rather tired assertion that most men are brutes, and most women are witches. Not the pointy-hatted kind.Simon (Richard Kind) and his adult daughter Janie (Gia Crovatin) are meeting at a cafe after a three-year separation. Janie has a proposal. If Simon would like to meet his grandson, he must sign a contract making him responsible for heavy fines if his best behavior fails. Simon is not enthused.Maybe this seems like a fair fight. It isn’t. Mr. LaBute has his thumb on the scales, weighting the play against Janie. Under Mr. Calvani’s direction, she is eventually subject to a violent and highly sexualized scene of humiliation, made even more pervy by Jeff Mahshie’s costuming. The script and Ms. Crovatin render her as such a mouthy, bratty little horror that the audience at a preview performance cheered and applauded, a reaction the play didn’t ask them to question or regret.Maybe Mr. LaBute is asking us to evaluate how quickly our own brutality might kick in, our own chauvinism might surface. But with Ms. Crovatin’s short skirt hiked up over her buttocks, it didn’t feel that way. It felt despicable. I knew why those two characters were in the room; I wished I were somewhere else.
Watching “David’s Friend,” a feisty and funny one-woman show written and performed by Nora Burns, is a bit like sitting down, slightly tipsy, and playing a bunch of your scratched but beloved 45s from the late 1970s and early 1980s on your record player — if you’ve kept yours or joined the blooming back-to-vinyl movement.Although its focus is the story of her fast (in all senses) friendship with the man named in the title, whom she met when they were teenagers in Boston, Ms. Burns’s show, performed only through Feb. 5 at the Club at La MaMa, is also a heady dip into the years when New York night life was at its dizzying, decadent height; when Bianca and Andy and company were thronging Studio 54 and Xenon and Danceteria; when Details was a magazine printed on unglossy paper and filled with, well, details about anything and everybody that was cool.If you lived through even a part of it, you’ll be swimming merrily alongside her in memories — although, as Ms. Burns ruefully recalls, many of those wild, unforgettable nights may have been fogged to the point of obscurity by the ingestion of illicit substances. Oh well, clearly for Ms. Burns, it was worth it — and fortunately she kept a diary.If you were too young, or too old, or too sensible to partake with the abandon Ms. Burns and her best pal did, her odyssey will bring alive the period and its pleasures (and poisons) with pungent animation. Recalling the story of her and David’s raucous years of dancing and drugging until daylight, she says: “We did not stay home. No one did, you did not stay home, ever.”Why would Ms. Burns sit home knitting when, after falling in love with a) gay men, b) disco and, most of all, c) David — platonically — she moved to New York and found herself in the heady dome of pleasure that the city then was? She hurtled here immediately after high school to go to college, ostensibly, but soon after David joined her, she says, “school was interfering with my night life so I decided to take a year off.”“From school,” she adds, perhaps unnecessarily.Skinny as a sylph, clad in sleek black, her blond hair doing a bit of disco dancing of its own, Ms. Burns, a founding member of the comedy troupes Unitard and the Nellie Olesons, flips through her memories in roughly chronological order. She is aided only by a necessary companion — a D.J. spinning disco classics, Billy Hough, who occasionally takes part in the show — and vintage photographs of New York in her (and its?) night-life heyday, and, of course, of herself and David, whom she accurately describes as a man of uncommon beauty.Directed by Adrienne Truscott, Ms. Burns’s delivery is crisp, wry and dry. And while her story takes a few meandering digressions, that’s only natural, considering the gleefully reckless way she and David careered through their 20s, without much thought given to a future career.She stripped; he hustled. She was more the girl on the fringe of the party; he was a social and sexual magnet. Together they mostly romped by night and slept by day in the gritty playground the city once was, a playground that, as she observes with more than a hint of nostalgia, has been scrubbed free of grime now: “That craggy, dangerous, exciting city we came to in the ’70s and ’80s to escape our families, tourists and the wealthy has become a safe haven for families, tourists and the wealthy.”“People aren’t afraid of the blacks, the Jews and the gays anymore,” she cracks. “Well, not the Jews and the gays.”It is not spoiling much to reveal that David did not survive the AIDS epidemic. After just a few descriptions of their scrappy, joyful, sex-and-drug-fueled sorties, you can pretty much tell where this ride will end. But if the unhappy conclusion of David’s foreshortened life can be foretold, the retelling of it is a continual pleasure.By coincidence, the night David died in 1993, Ms. Burns was dancing on a speaker on Fire Island. You can be sure he would have appreciated it.
Look! Up on the screen! It’s a mystery! It’s a sitcom! Oh, and it’s a superhero show!As the comic-book titans Marvel and DC, having already colonized movie theaters, take over ever larger chunks of television and streaming video, they’ve wisely started to mix things up. A new series set in one of their superhero universes just might be capeless, or bring in costumed crime fighters as window dressing. Marvel’s “Jessica Jones” on Netflix largely takes the form of a noirish mystery, while its “Legion” on FX (beginning next week) looks like a surrealist psychological thriller. “Powers” on the PlayStation Network is essentially “Law & Order: Superhumans.”Perhaps the least superheroish superhero show, though, is NBC’s new “Powerless” (beginning Thursday). It’s a comedy, for one thing, part of a small tradition that includes “The Tick” and the campy, semi-parodic 1960s “Batman.” (A promo for the show is narrated by that old-school Batman, Adam West.) And it’s set in a particularly nonheroic corner of the DC universe: the drab offices of Wayne Security, where a cousin of Batman oversees a motley crew designing products that keep civilians from becoming collateral damage in superhero battles.It’s a nifty, layered premise. For one thing, it’s a dig at the big, soulless tentpole movies in which teams of heroes lay waste to cities full of screaming little humans, particularly the “Avengers” films from DC’s rival, Marvel. Seen from another angle — as a traditional workplace sitcom — the in-the-shadow-of-the-superheroes angle works just as well. What office doesn’t make people feel powerless?It’s hard to judge how that premise will be developed, though, because NBC made only one episode available for review. (The pilot was originally commissioned in 2015, and since then the show’s creator, Ben Queen, has left.) It’s quirky and pleasant but not terribly funny, and the comic situations are standard office sitcom: The new supervisor is hazed; the disgruntled workers sort out into nice, mean and wacky stereotypes; the boss spends all his time trying to get his cousin Bruce on the phone.Vanessa Hudgens (“Spring Breakers”) stars as the company’s relentlessly perky new head of R&D, but if the show succeeds it will be because of an ensemble that includes distinctive performers like Alan Tudyk as the feckless Van Wayne and Danny Pudi, Ron Funches and Christina Kirk as the cranky workers waiting to be whipped into shape.In the pilot, costumed heroes appear only in the amusing credits sequence and in an opening on an elevated train that plays like an ooh-it’s-the-big-city scene from a Hollywood musical. Add a few songs, and it could be from “Meet Me in St. Louis,” except for the supervillain tearing up the train tracks and the superhero — an actual DC character, Crimson Fox — who saves the day.It’s clever and invigorating, and about the only thing in the pilot that actually makes the connection between office workers and superheroes. “Powerless” is a cute idea for a show, but it will need a lot more scenes like that to turn into a worthwhile series.
Audience members at “The Great American Drama” should be careful what they wish for.Created by Connor Sampson, who directed with Greg Taubman, this latest offering from the New York Neo-Futurists is based on the results of an online survey asking people to rank what they like best at the theater, and to write in what they’d most want to see. Mr. Sampson and the three actors (whom he joined onstage) then developed a show based on the findings. Creative types usually sneer at art by committee; the Neo-Futurists embrace it.The experiment brings to mind Komar and Melamid’s “Most Wanted” project in the 1990s, in which that Russian duo created paintings based on polls of what people from various countries like to see in art. Here, the cast, with help from the musician Liljie, go through vignettes that illustrate some of the survey’s results.So what do people want from a play? Turns out, many pollsters now equate theater with a certain blockbuster musical, so the cast threw themselves into a rendition of “Alexander Hamilton” that eventually screeched to a halt with the flashing of a mock copyright notice.Nudity? Happy to oblige, even if at the Thursday performance a theatergoer yelled “Stop!” when the performer Nicole Hill took off her shirt. We had been informed we could interrupt the striptease at any time, and indeed the show — like the Neo-Futurists’ best-known work, “Too Much Light Makes the Baby Go Blind” — mixes scripted material with improvisation and audience participation.Trickier was bringing to life demands that escalated from “acting” to “good acting” to “great acting.” Daniel McCoy attempted to do so by gradually dialing up his emoting in snippets from Chekhov, Ibsen, Inge and Odets.The team struggled even more with requests like “positive bisexual representation” and “to be transported,” as skits floundered in the twilight zone between comedy and earnestness. If “The Great American Drama” established one thing, it’s that theater is more than the sum of its parts.
Physical affection is a lost art in the broken family of Anna Jordan’s “Yen,” a violent play about tender feelings, which opened on Tuesday night at the Lucille Lortel Theater. For the two teenage half brothers at the center of this British drama, to touch is to violate, to attack and, as like as not, to bruise.That’s the mind-set that develops, it seems, when a boy’s perception of the world comes almost entirely from pornographic films and Call of Duty video games, entertainments in which our leading almost-men are immersed day and night. Gentle caresses, fraternal hugs and friendly pats on the back just aren’t part of their vocabulary.These feral creatures, who live on their own in a rancid apartment in a suburban London housing project, are portrayed with equal sensitivity and fierceness by the young actors Lucas Hedges and Justice Smith. Careering into each other like runaway bumper cars, they create a gracefully graceless ballet of kinetic dysfunction, appropriate to characters who have never learned how to handle the lethal weapon that is the human body.Much of the advance buzz around this MCC production, directed by Trip Cullman, has been generated by the participation of the 20-year-old Mr. Hedges, who is making his theater debut. Last week Mr. Hedges was nominated for an Academy Award for best supporting actor in the Kenneth Lonergan heartbreaker “Manchester by the Sea,” a film in which he holds his own against the full-bore intensity of its star, Casey Affleck.Mr. Hedges, you’ll be happy to hear, is just as comfortable being uncomfortable onstage as he is onscreen. In the role of Hench, at 16 the older of the brothers, he delivers an expert anatomy of an adolescent on the edge of explosion. Hench doesn’t have a lot to say; but even in rigid repose, his most common posture, his body is eloquent with radioactive misery.Mr. Hedges’s performance is matched in style and assurance by those of two other newcomers to New York theater. They are the 21-year-old Mr. Smith (of “The Get Down” on Netflix), whose 14-year-old Bobbie is a one-man fireworks display, and the film and television actress Stefania LaVie Owen, 19, who gives a beautifully drawn performance as Jennifer, the girl next door (or across the courtyard), who brings a temporary measure of sanity to the brothers’ blasted lives.The cast is effectively rounded out by Ari Graynor as Maggie, the boys’ drug-and-drink-addled mom, who sporadically drops by to steal something to sell. She makes her entrance comatose, dragged into view by her sons. If you want to understand why Hench and Bobbie are so bereft of social skills, just wait until she wakes up.Child-warping mothers like Maggie have been a staple of socially conscious British theater, often created by precocious young playwrights of advanced talent and merciless judgment. Think of Shelagh Delaney’s “A Taste of Honey” or, more recently, Polly Stenham’s “That Face.”“Yen,” which originated at the Royal Exchange Theater in Manchester, belongs squarely to that tradition, which might be called motherless England plays. Hench and Bobbie are clinical specimens of parental neglect, children of darkness who leave their filthy flat only to steal the barest necessities of existence.When we first meet them, camped out on the sofa bed before yet another porn fest on the telly, they have only a single T-shirt. They share their squalid quarters with a dog (never seen but often heard) with the weighted name of Taliban, to which they pay about as much attention as their mother pays to them.That’s why Jennifer — whose father has recently died and who has moved from Wales with her mother to live with relatives — shows up, a gleaming dog lead in hand, to make the boys do right by Taliban. She is also a lonely girl, and, with a combination of adult practicality and youthful naïveté, she insinuates her way into the brothers’ lives.The consequences of her doing so are mapped by Ms. Jordan in ways that can feel labored. “Yen” is a thoughtful play, for sure, but too often you’re aware of the wheels churning behind it. And while everything clicks thematically (and symbolically), you may feel that the characters are being pushed into climactic positions by authorial hands.The play has been given an appropriately assaultive physical production. Mark Wendland’s bleak set is ominously accented by Ben Stanton’s dingy lighting, Fitz Patton’s abrasive sound design and videos by Lucy Mackinnon that feel as aggressively restless as the hyperkinetic Bobbie.Despite the resulting sensory overload, “Yen” never quite packs the wallop it so obviously intends to. Its dialogue, while replete with a raw sexual vocabulary that its characters fail to grasp the implications of, falters when it skews sentimental. (We learn, for example, that Yen, a synonym for longing, is what Jennifer’s father used to call her.)The production is most articulate at its least verbal, when the cast members give fractured physical life to their emotional confusion. Watch Mr. Smith’s Bobbie mimicking domestic rituals of grooming and tidying at manically heightened speed. Or his clumsy avidity as he climbs into his mum’s lap, like an overgrown mastiff that thinks it’s still a puppy, or his defiant cuddling-up to the contact-averse Hench.When Hench and Jennifer find themselves alone, the bewildered longing in Mr. Hedges’s face and posture are exquisitely painful. Jennifer tries to teach him how to touch, but the prospect of such connection frightens Hench, and we share his fear.First love is never easy. Here it feels almost fatally fraught.
WASHINGTON — Rex W. Tillerson, the former chairman and chief executive of Exxon Mobil, was confirmed by the Senate on Wednesday in a 56-to-43 vote to become the nation’s 69th secretary of state just as serious strains have emerged with important international allies.The votes against Mr. Tillerson’s confirmation were the most in Senate history, a reflection of Democratic unease with President Trump’s early foreign policy pronouncements that threaten to upend a multilateral approach that has guided United States presidents since World War II.Thirteen senators voted in 2005 against Condoleezza Rice in the midst of a deteriorating Iraq war, and in 1825, Henry Clay was confirmed 27 to 14, the record for votes against until Wednesday, according to a tally provided by the Senate Historical Office.Mr. Trump’s unapologetically nationalistic approach has put into question the value of many alliances and multilateral institutions. How Mr. Tillerson’s translates Mr. Trump’s vow of “America First” into the kind of polite diplomatic parlance that will maintain vital ties will be a significant test.Among his other challenges are dealing with Mr. Trump’s promises to recast relations with China and Russia, move the American Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem from Tel Aviv, and re-examine an international nuclear deal with Iran.In a White House briefing on Wednesday, Michael Flynn, the national security adviser, issued a stern warning to Iran. “The Obama administration failed to respond adequately to Tehran’s malign actions,” he said.Mr. Tillerson, 64, a Texan, earned an engineering degree from the University of Texas at Austin, got a job at Exxon in 1975 and climbed his way to the top, leaving only last year. Neither a diplomat, soldier nor politician, he is an unconventional choice for the job, but has vast international experience.With operations on six continents, Exxon Mobil is in some ways a state within a state. As its chief executive, Mr. Tillerson struck deals with repressive governments — in at least one case, against the advice of the State Department. Environmentalists largely opposed his nomination.But his views on international affairs are in many ways more conventional than those of Mr. Trump, which is why even Democratic-leaning foreign affairs experts said they welcomed his selection in hopes he would bring ballast to a turbulent administration.“Rex Tillerson will have the most demanding and complex agenda to face a secretary of state in a very long time,” said R. Nicholas Burns, a Harvard professor and career foreign service officer.Another crucial question will be how much influence Mr. Tillerson has on Mr. Trump. All cabinet secretaries must compete for power with White House aides who have long personal relationships with and frequent access to the president. But Mr. Trump’s reliance on a close circle of advisers to write and vet executive orders while keeping departments that must implement them largely in the dark is without precedent.Mr. Trump invited Mr. Tillerson for a private lunch at the White House on Wednesday, the first time Mr. Tillerson has appeared on the president’s official schedule.Mollifying allies infuriated by Mr. Trump’s orders could be a full-time job. A ban on refugee arrivals and entries from seven Muslim countries, for instance, has enraged Iraqi officials whose cooperation is vital in the fight against the Islamic State — a top administration priority. It has also infuriated many European leaders crucial to efforts not only in Syria, but Afghanistan and Libya as well, and it has tarnished what had been viewed as a successful trip by Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain, who on Monday said she opposed the ban.Relations with Mexico have plunged to their lowest level in decades after Mr. Trump insisted he would build a border wall regardless of Mexican opposition, and his administration proposed slapping a 20 percent tariff on Mexican imports to pay for it. President Enrique Peña Nieto canceled a planned meeting, although the two spoke by phone.The relationship with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, already tense from Mr. Trump’s repeated denunciations of the European Union for which she is a principal guardian, threatened to become toxic after Peter Navarro, the director of Mr. Trump’s new National Trade Council, denounced the relatively low value of the euro as an unfair currency advantage for Germany.“Tillerson faces the most difficult task of any secretary of state in the postwar era in trying to reconcile President Trump’s intention to make a stark break from decades of bipartisan consensus U.S. foreign policy leadership with the reality that, if he succeeds, such a break could lead to global chaos,” said Ryan C. Crocker, who served as the United States ambassador to five Muslim countries.Mr. Tillerson may also face difficult internal hurdles. Much of his department’s top leadership has departed — many because the Trump administration, like others before it, refused to keep political appointees. But the Trump transition team has been so short-handed and the pickings among Republican foreign policy veterans who had not criticized Mr. Trump so slim that dozens of positions are likely to remain empty for some time.More worrisome, morale among the department’s rank-and-file career officers has plunged, with a dissent memo against the administration’s refugee and entry bans being submitted on Tuesday garnering more than 900 signatures, an extraordinary number.Whether Mr. Tillerson meets these challenges with defiance or moderation will be a telling indication of his leadership.Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said Monday that foreign service officers “can get with the program or they can go.”
MANILA — The top police official in the Philippines said Monday that he would suspend police participation in the nation’s bloody drug war while he conducted a purge of rogue officers.But President Rodrigo Duterte said earlier on Monday that the crackdown would continue until “the last day of my term,” raising questions about whether a suspension would do anything to halt the violence.At least 3,600 people, and possibly thousands more, have been killed by the police or by vigilantes since Mr. Duterte came to power. Human rights groups have said the extrajudicial killings of drug dealers and users may have been ordered by the police, a charge officials have denied.The head of the Philippine National Police, Ronald dela Rosa, said at a news conference on Monday that the Drug Enforcement Agency would instead have the authority to pursue drug cases. He was responding to criticism after a South Korean businessman was strangled at Police Headquarters last year by officers who later extorted ransom money from his family under the pretense that he was alive.“Ready yourselves, you bad cops,” Mr. dela Rosa said. “We no longer have a war on drugs, but we now have a war on scalawags. We will clean house now.”His order came hours after President Duterte rejected calls to fire the police chief, who is one of his most loyal allies.Mr. dela Rosa said the suspension would last about a month, during which the antidrug units in the police, which has about 120,000 officers, would be dissolved and overhauled. He said he had already ordered the internal affairs service to submit a list of rogue police officers who had been cleared and for their cases to be reviewed again. He said that the purge would start in the capital, Manila, and the main island of Luzon.Mr. Duterte told an earlier news conference on Monday that rogue officers in the police force were committing crimes “on the pretext of doing the drug war.”He added: “They are now a new strain of the original big-time drug syndicates. And out of this was born corrupt officers who use warrants on the pretext that they are arresting you or searching you for drugs.”Some rights groups suggested that the suspension amounted to a public relations exercise and did not seek accountability for the thousands of deaths linked to the crackdown on drug dealers and addicts.Phelim Kine, deputy director for Asia of Human Rights Watch, said of Mr. dela Rosa: “His willful blind eye to those deaths constitutes a disgraceful betrayal of the public trust and is a telling indicator of his personal contempt for rule of law and the right to life of his fellow citizens.”Amnesty International said in a news release that the suspension, coupled with Mr. Duterte’s declaration that the crackdown would ultimately continue, ignored the root of the problem. “These contradictory statements offer little hope that the wave of extrajudicial executions that has claimed more than a thousand lives a month will end,” it said.Rights groups tied the killing of the South Korean businessman, Jee Ick-joo, 53, to Mr. Duterte’s antidrug campaign, saying that the officers had been emboldened by his promise to shield those involved in the crackdown from prosecution.During his election campaign, Mr. Duterte vowed a tough stance on crime, promising to kill 100,000 criminals in his first six months in office and dump so many bodies in Manila Bay that the “fish will grow fat.”But on Sunday, he indicated that he had underestimated the extent of the drug problem and that he would continue the campaign until the end of his tenure in 2022.
MELBOURNE, Australia — Though it has an undeniable ring to it, Roger Federer versus Rafael Nadal is not the best rivalry in men’s tennis. The numbers prove it, with Nadal dominating the series and the major finals within it to a large degree.But Federer versus Nadal for the Australian Open title on Sunday certainly feels like the match that the sport wanted, maybe even needed, and the wider world might agree that a revival performance of a classic is rather reassuring in these uncertain times.Federer and Nadal have been respectful rivals, with only the occasional breaks in decorum, for more than a decade. Although they are five years apart in age — Federer is 35, Nadal 30 — they are together for good in our collective mind’s eye and their own eyes, too, after their run of classic matches at Wimbledon, the Australian Open and elsewhere in the 2000s.“It is special to play with Roger in a final of a Grand Slam, I cannot lie,” Nadal said after winning a nearly five-hour five-set semifinal over Grigor Dimitrov on Friday, 6-3, 5-7, 7-6 (5), 6-7 (4), 6-4. “It’s great. It’s exciting for me, and for both of us, that we’re still there and we’re still fighting for important events.”The prospect of a Nadal-Federer revival in a major final seemed unlikely with Andy Murray and Novak Djokovic sharing the spoils at the top of the men’s game in 2016. It seemed even more unlikely when Federer traveled to Majorca, in Spain, for the opening of Nadal’s tennis academy on Oct. 19, with both men taking lengthy timeouts from tennis because of injuries.“I told him I wish we could do a charity match or something, but I was on one leg and he had the wrist injury,” Federer said. “We were playing some mini-tennis with some juniors, and we’re like, ‘That’s the best we can do right now.’”Three months later, they have done better in Melbourne, showing remarkable form and resolve and going the distance against younger men. Federer had to win five-setters against No. 5 seed Kei Nishikori and No. 4 seed Stan Wawrinka. In the semifinal against Wawrinka, his friend and former Olympic doubles partner, Federer fought off break points early in the fifth set that could have allowed Wawrinka to take control of the match for good.“I thought in the beginning of the fifth that perhaps the wall had appeared in front of me, and that it was the end of this nice story,” Federer said.Nadal had to fight off two break points of his own in the fifth set before holding off Dimitrov, a 25-year-old underachiever who looks ready to achieve plenty from here.“First of all, I hope to recover well,” said Nadal, who will have one fewer day of rest before the final than Federer.Nadal has done it before in Melbourne in the same situation. In 2009, he played an even lengthier five-set semifinal with his compatriot Fernando Verdasco that left him unable to fall asleep until 5 a.m. Even with less rest, he beat Federer in a five-set final that left Federer in tears during the awards ceremony.“God, it’s killing me,” he said with his voice cracking as he backed away from the microphone.Rod Laver Arena has been a sweet and sour place for both men. Federer has been beaten there by Nadal in an Australian Open final and by Djokovic three times in the semifinals. He also lost to Lleyton Hewitt during a Davis Cup semifinal in 2003 between Switzerland and Australia.Nadal has experienced major setbacks in the arena, too, none more memorable than his loss to Djokovic in the 2012 final in a brutal test that lasted nearly six hours and left both men unable to stand at the trophy ceremony.But this year, neither Nadal nor Federer had to deal with Djokovic or Murray, both of whom were upset in the first week of the tournament. The older guard has capitalized and retaken center stage.Either Federer will extend his lead in career Grand Slam singles titles with his 18th, or Nadal will narrow the gap with Federer to just two by winning his 15th.Still, the historical implications are deeply subsidiary to the anticipation over the match itself. The two men have not played in a Grand Slam final since the 2011 French Open. Nadal is 23-11 against Federer, including a 3-0 record at the Australian Open, where they last met in the 2014 semifinals.Asked if all that gave him an edge, Nadal — never one to overestimate his chances in public — said no.“Was a long time ago,” he said. “Is a different match, different moment, for both of us. I think this match is completely different than what happened before. Is special. We have not been there in that situation for a while, so that makes the match different.”Federer actually won their most recent match, in 2015, which was indoors on a hardcourt in the final of the tour event in Basel, Federer’s hometown in Switzerland.But he had lost five straight to Nadal before that and has not beaten him in a Grand Slam tournament since the Wimbledon final in 2007.The court in Laver Arena is playing quicker than usual, but it is still not quite a net rusher’s or big server’s paradise. Extended rallies were still the rule when Nadal and Dimitrov faced off, but even if the speed increase is marginal, it could help Federer get more penetration on his shots against Nadal’s redoubtable defenses.The concern for Federer is that Nadal had the ideal warm-up partner in Dimitrov, who plays a similar all-court game to Federer and also has a flashy one-handed backhand.Dimitrov hit it beautifully under pressure on Friday night, particularly down the line, and yet he still lost. Federer’s backhand, which has generally looked strong, even off deep balls to the corners, has long tended to break down under the relentless pressure of the left-handed Nadal’s whipping forehand.All that said, this certainly looks like a more neutral venue in tactical terms than a clay court or a slow hardcourt, which would heavily favor Nadal.“Predicting the outcome is impossible,” Wawrinka said. “Roger has two full days to recover. I think it will be a monster match.”Their history suggests otherwise. The Nadal-Federer matchup has fired a few blanks through the years. Federer’s rivalry with Djokovic, which the Serb leads by 23-22, has been a more reliable generator of suspense (and edge). So has Nadal versus Djokovic, the most prolific rivalry of the men’s Open era, which Djokovic leads, 26-23.But Federer versus Nadal can still outgenerate them all in terms of buzz and nostalgia. Sunday should be no exception.“Both of us never thought we’d be here again in the final of Australia, so we both feel very happy,” Nadal said through the fatigue on Friday night as he addressed the crowd. “I hope you are happy, too.”
MELBOURNE, Australia — It was Roger Federer’s unlikeliest victory in a Grand Slam tournament — quite a statement for a 35-year-old who has now won 18 of them.But where else should one rank this Australian Open, where Federer was rightfully viewed as an underdog? Where he arrived seeded just 17th, having not played an official tournament for more than six months? Where he faced his friendly rival Rafael Nadal in the final on sore legs?Even Federer’s own expectations were tempered for a change.“I would have said a great event would be quarters,” Federer said. “Fourth round would be nice.”Federer would get a great deal more than that in Melbourne, a city where his success has mingled with plenty of heartache and tears through the years.He wiped away a few more on Sunday as he became the oldest man to win a Grand Slam singles title in 45 years. He managed it by defeating Nadal, 6-4, 3-6, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3, to win the Australian Open for the fifth time.“You don’t know if they ever come back, these moments,” said Federer, who had not won a major title since Wimbledon in 2012 and who had not beaten Nadal in a Grand Slam final since Wimbledon in 2007.Federer played here with verve and precision but had to scrap his way through three five-set matches in the final four rounds, receiving plenty of treatment between duels. Although he did not have to deal with the world’s two leading players, Andy Murray and Novak Djokovic, who were upset in the first week, Federer did face top 10 opponents aplenty.He defeated four of them: Tomas Berdych, Kei Nishikori, Stan Wawrinka and — most important — Nadal, the swashbuckling Spanish left-hander who has so often thwarted Federer on big occasions but who failed to seal the deal on Sunday despite taking a 3-1 lead in the fifth set.That was perhaps when Federer’s tempered expectations helped him most. This really did feel like gravy after all the major meals he has enjoyed through the years, and he stuck with the game plan he and his coaches, Severin Lüthi and Ivan Ljubicic, had discussed.“I told myself to play free,” Federer said. “You play the ball. You don’t play the opponent. Be free in your head. Be free in your shots. Go for it. The brave will be rewarded here. I didn’t want to go down just making shots, seeing forehands rain down on me from Rafa.”Few could have foreseen this final when the Australian Open began. This was Federer’s first official tournament after a long break because of knee problems in 2016. Nadal ended last season early, too, after an injury to his left wrist. And yet the occasion felt so familiar, inciting global interest and nostalgia for the days when Federer-Nadal summit meetings were a staple.But this was not business as usual for Federer on a court that he repeatedly maintained was playing quicker than in past years. His one-handed backhand has long been his weak link against Nadal, whose whipping topspin forehand has forced Federer to hit too many backhands above the shoulder — and too many backhands, period.Federer took a more proactive approach Sunday, driving his backhand for much of the match instead of relying on his more neutral slice. He ripped through his backhand returns as well, and Nadal — not quite at his relentless best — was unable to grind him down. With the match in his grasp, Nadal wavered while Federer let his elegant strokes fly.“He did not surprise me,” Nadal said. “He was playing aggressively, and I understand that in a match against me. I don’t think it would have been intelligent to try to get into too many long rallies from the baseline. I don’t think he would have won. He went for it, and it was the right thing for him to do.”The result was a brisk five-setter by Nadal’s standards. The Spaniard required 4 hours 56 minutes to beat Federer’s stylistic acolyte, Grigor Dimitrov, and his one-handed backhand in the semifinals.Sunday’s final lasted 3:38, and that included a medical timeout that Federer took off court after losing the fourth set.Federer has rarely taken that liberty through the years, but he did the same before the fifth set of his semifinal victory over his Swiss compatriot Wawrinka, citing a groin injury.Federer’s decision to take a timeout again on Sunday drew criticism from the former Wimbledon champion Pat Cash of Australia, who said on BBC Radio that it was “legal cheating” to interrupt a long match because of weariness.Federer disagreed and explained that his leg had been bothering him since he beat the young American Noah Rubin in the second round. Federer said that on Sunday, he had begun feeling pain in his right quadriceps “midway through the second set” and that “the groin started to hurt midway through the third set.”“I just told myself, ‘The rules are there that you can use them,’” he said. “I think I’ve led the way for 20 years, so I think to be critical there is exaggerating. I’m the last guy to call a medical timeout.”The break did not help Federer start quickly in the fifth set. Nadal broke his serve in the opening game and jumped out to that 3-1 lead. But with his chances appearing to fade, Federer took control, breaking Nadal’s serve in the long and edgy sixth and eighth games of the set.All Federer had to do then was serve out the championship at 5-3, but he quickly fell behind by 15-40 before saving one break point with an ace and the next with a forehand winner.On his first match point, he made a shaky forehand error, but he converted the second with a looping midcourt forehand that appeared to land on the sideline for a winner.Nadal challenged and shrugged, hands on his hips. The review upheld the initial call, and Federer pumped his arms over his head and leapt with delight.“Of course it’s slightly awkward to win this way,” Federer said. “Nevertheless, emotions poured out of me. I was incredibly happy.”This victory, he said, was unique.“I can’t compare this to any other one except maybe the French Open in ’09,” Federer said, referring to his only championship in that event, which came after Nadal had been upset in the fourth round.Federer is the second-oldest man to win a major singles title in the Open era, behind Ken Rosewall, who won the 1970 United States Open when he was approaching his 36th birthday, the 1971 Australian Open at 36 and the 1972 Australian Open at 37.Federer has long admired Rosewall, Rod Laver and the leading players of Australia’s golden tennis era. Federer has helped create a new team competition, the Laver Cup, that will start in September, and Laver presented the trophy to him on Sunday night — at Rod Laver Arena.The victory over Nadal significantly increased Federer’s chances of remaining the career leader in men’s Grand Slam singles titles. With 18, he has a more comfortable lead over Nadal, who is tied with Pete Sampras for second on the list, at 14.“That’s the smallest part, to be honest,” Federer said. “For me, it’s all about the comeback, about an epic match with Rafa again.”Nadal has long dominated their series and still leads, 23-12. But on matches played off clay, a surface on which Nadal has a huge edge, the tally is now 10-10.Nadal won their most memorable final, a five-setter at Wimbledon in 2008 that ended in the twilight and is a candidate for the greatest match ever.But Sunday’s extended test of talent and perseverance will surely make the Federer-Nadal short list as well, especially if it turns out to be their last mutual hurrah in a Grand Slam final.“Being honest, in these kinds of matches I won a lot of times against him,” Nadal said. “Today he beat me, and I just congratulate him.”Nadal is just 30, five years younger than Federer, who made an intriguing comment to the crowd at the award ceremony.“I hope to see you next year,” he said. “If not, this was a wonderful run here, and I can’t be more happy to have won here tonight.”The last man to claim a Grand Slam singles title as a 17th seed was Sampras, when he won the 2002 United States Open. He eventually retired without playing another match on tour.Federer, married and a father of four, has a full schedule planned for this season, and he emphasized later that he hoped to return to Melbourne in 2018. But he still sounded much, much closer to the end than the beginning, as he and his entourage prepared to, in his words, “party like rock stars” in the predawn hours.“I mean, this is all about knowing that I have only so much tennis left in me,” he said.He no longer needed to wonder if there was an 18th Grand Slam left in him, too.
MELBOURNE, Australia — Roger Federer, at 35, became the oldest man to win a Grand Slam singles title in 45 years, defeating his longtime rival Rafael Nadal, 6-4, 3-6, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3, on Sunday to win the Australian Open for the fifth time.It was the unlikeliest of Federer’s 18 major victories. He arrived in Melbourne having not played in an official tournament for more than six months because of a knee injury that spoiled his 2016 season.Even Federer’s own expectations were tempered. But he played with verve and precision, defeating four top-10 players here — Tomas Berdych, Kei Nishikori, Stan Wawrinka and Nadal — to win his first Grand Slam title since Wimbledon in 2012.Down a break early in the fifth set, Federer rallied to win the last five games of the match.“I would have been happy to accept a draw tonight and share it with Rafa,” Federer said during the trophy ceremony.He is the second-oldest man to win a major singles title in the Open era,s behind only Ken Rosewall, who won the 1970 United States Open when he was approaching his 36th birthday, the 1971 Australian Open at 36 and the 1972 Australian Open at 37.Federer has long admired Rosewall, Rod Laver and the leading players of Australia’s golden tennis era. He has helped create a new team competition, the Laver Cup, which will start this year. Rosewall and Laver have attended Federer’s matches during this tournament and have personal relationships with him.“I love that generation of players with Tony Roche, Rod Laver, Ken Rosewall, Roy Emerson,” Federer said before Sunday’s final.“We got to milk a cow together in Gstaad,” Federer, of Switzerland, said of Emerson. “We go way back.”But Federer is the one making tennis history now, and his victory over Nadal significantly increased his chances of remaining the career leader in men’s Grand Slam singles titles.With 18, he now has a sizable lead over Nadal, who ranks second on the list with 14.Nadal has long dominated the head-to-head series with Federer and still leads, 23-12. In their Grand Slam finals together, Nadal leads, 6-3. Federer had not beaten Nadal at a major since the 2007 Wimbledon final.Nadal’s superiority on clay is a big explanation for his career edge: He has won 13 of their 15 matches on the surface. But it is not the only big explanation. Nadal had also won eight of their 10 matches on outdoor hardcourts coming into Sunday night’s final, and he had beaten Federer in all three of their previous matches on the hardcourts at the Australian Open.His whipping left-handed forehand is the shot that has done the most damage to Federer’s game and confidence through the years. Nadal’s sliced serve, which forces Federer to hit backhand return after backhand return, has been decisive, too.But it is also about the complete package: Nadal’s remarkable court coverage and seemingly unsinkable competitive spirit; his passing shots, underrated versatility and tactical acumen; and his two-handed backhand, which was particularly solid and effective during this tournament.He counterpunched with it brilliantly in his grueling and thrilling five-set victory over Grigor Dimitrov in a semifinal on Friday, a match that lasted 4 hours 56 minutes.In 2009, Nadal managed to recover from an even more grueling semifinal against Fernando Verdasco to beat Federer in the final (and reduce him to tears in the post-match ceremony).But Nadal, now 30 years old, could not manage to thwart Federer this time in a most unexpected summit meeting. Nadal was seeded ninth, Federer just 17th. Both missed the end of the season in 2016 as they recovered from injuries.They arrived in Melbourne healthy and reinvigorated and then took appropriate hints when the game’s two leading men — Novak Djokovic and Andy Murray — were upset in the first week.Both Nadal and Federer emoted plenty during their throwback runs to the final, but only Federer was celebrating on Sunday.
Joshua Harmon (“Significant Other”) and Lindsey Ferrentino (“Ugly Lies the Bone”), alumni of the Roundabout Underground, will return to Roundabout Theater Company with two new plays.Those plays, which were commissioned by Roundabout, will have their premieres as part of the theater company’s Off Broadway season at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater.Mr. Harmon’s “Skintight” — which deals in themes of beauty, youth and sex — is scheduled to begin performances in May 2018. At the helm will be Daniel Aukin, who directed Mr. Harmon’s witty, dark comedy “Bad Jews” at Roundabout in 2013. “Significant Other,” which ran at Roundabout in 2015, will transfer to Broadway next month.Performances of “Amy and the Orphans,” by Ms. Ferrentino, are set to begin in February 2018. The play, about siblings who reunite after their father’s death, will be directed by Scott Ellis, a Tony Award nominee for Roundabout’s revival of “She Loves Me” last year.The season also includes the New York premiere of “The Last Match,” by Anna Ziegler (“Boy”), and “Too Heavy for Your Pocket,” by the Roundabout newcomer Jiréh Breon Holder.
WASHINGTON — With what by legal standards was lightning speed, the judicial branch responded to President Trump’s immigration order on Saturday night, telling the president that he had moved too fast in barring people from seven predominantly Muslim nations from entering the United States.But the court orders, from judges in at least four cities, were just the initial steps in litigation that may last for years.The orders were provisional, aimed at maintaining the status quo. They were limited in scope, applying only to people on their way to the United States or already here. They did not rule on the larger question of whether Mr. Trump’s executive order was lawful.They were a signal that the federal judiciary stands ready to assess the limits of presidential power over immigration policy. But they gave only the most preliminary hints about whether the courts will strike down part or all of Mr. Trump’s executive order.Still, leaders of civil liberties groups were savoring their victories in these early skirmishes.“The courts can serve as a bulwark against these excesses,” said Anthony D. Romero, the executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union, which represents the plaintiffs in one of the cases. “Litigation is going to be a key tool for either undoing these policies or slowing them down.”In a statement issued early Sunday, the Department of Homeland Security said it would comply with the court orders. But the department added that little had changed.“The president’s executive orders remain in place — prohibited travel will remain prohibited, and the U.S. government retains its right to revoke visas at any time if required for national security or public safety,” the statement said. “No foreign national in a foreign land, without ties to the United States, has any unfettered right to demand entry into the United States or to demand immigration benefits in the United States.”The four cases — in Boston, Brooklyn, Seattle and Alexandria, Va. — will move forward in the coming weeks, with briefs and hearings over whether to make the bans on removing the travelers more permanent. At the same time, the Trump administration may appeal the orders to federal appellate courts.David Cole, the A.C.L.U.’s legal director, said the order from Judge Ann M. Donnelly of the Federal District Court in Brooklyn, which issued a nationwide injunction, was an important first step.“Making it stick will require both making sure that it’s being followed at borders around the country and upholding it on appeal,” he said.While the government has released some plaintiffs in the four cases, others are being held while the cases move forward.On Sunday, there were widespread reports that government officials at airports were not complying with aspects of the orders. That may have been a product of confusion and miscommunication, but some feared it was an early sign of a potential constitutional showdown.“The scariest scenario,” said Peter J. Spiro, a law professor at Temple University, “is one in which the Department of Homeland Security simply ignores the court orders. That would have been close to unimaginable in prior administrations. In this one, unfortunately, it would almost be unsurprising.”The New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, sent a letter to federal officials Sunday demanding information about those held at John F. Kennedy International Airport after receiving what he called “alarming reports” that the federal government was planning to violate the court order.In an interview, Mr. Schneiderman said that the executive order was unconstitutional and that he and other attorneys general were exploring the possibility of legal action. “There may be grounds for a claim that this does damage to a state, if they’re damaging our state institutions” like universities and hospitals, he said.The president has broad power to control immigration. A federal law allows him to “suspend the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or nonimmigrants” if he determines that their entry “would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.”But another law appears to limit that power, saying that “no person shall receive any preference or priority or be discriminated against in the issuance of an immigrant visa because of the person’s race, sex, nationality, place of birth or place of residence.”Saturday’s court orders, issued in haste, contained little reasoning. Judge Donnelly, in Brooklyn, wrote that there was a strong likelihood that the two plaintiffs in the case, who seek to represent a class of refugees, visa holders and others, could establish that their removal would violate the Constitution’s due process and equal protection guarantees.Based on that conclusion and the “irreparable injury” the plaintiffs would suffer, Judge Donnelly issued a temporary nationwide injunction barring their removal. She did not order their release.The order in Boston, from Judge Allison D. Burroughs of the Federal District Court there, was in one sense broader and in another narrower. It limited border screening practices to those in place before Mr. Trump’s executive order, and it barred not only removal but also detention. But it seemed to be limited to people arriving or held at Logan International Airport there.The order from Judge Leonie M. Brinkema of the Federal District Court in Alexandria applied only to legal permanent residents being held at Dulles International Airport. The order in Seattle, from Judge Thomas S. Zilly of the Federal District Court there, applied to two plaintiffs.It is possible that one of the four cases will definitively resolve an important aspect of the legality of Mr. Trump’s order. But the cases were filed very quickly, and civil rights litigators generally like to locate ideal plaintiffs and hone their legal theories before filing test cases that could turn into legal landmarks.The Brooklyn case, for instance, did not make a claim based on the First Amendment’s prohibition of government establishment of religion, though some lawyers said that was the executive order’s central flaw.“The smoking gun they put in the executive order is the idea that they would grant exceptions for minority religions,” Mr. Romero said. Mr. Trump has said that was meant to favor Christians over Muslims.But opening such a challenge requires preparation, Mr. Cole said.“The one thing you can’t do under the establishment clause is denomination favoritism,” he said. “That’s a very promising claim, but it requires the right plaintiff.”
MOSCOW — The authorities in Moscow are prosecuting at least one cybersecurity expert for treason, a prominent Russian criminal defense lawyer confirmed on Friday, while a Russian newspaper reported that the case is linked to hacking during the United States presidential election.While surely touching a nerve in American politics, the developments in Moscow left a still muddled picture of what, exactly, a series of arrests by the security services here signifies.But the virtually simultaneous appearance of at least four prominent news reports on the hacking and several related arrests, citing numerous anonymous sources, suggests that the normally opaque Russian government intends to reveal more information about the matter, though it is unclear why.In the waning weeks of the Obama administration, American federal intelligence agencies released a report asserting the Russian government had hacked  into the computers of the Democratic National Committee and the chairman of Hillary Clinton’s campaign, John D. Podesta, stealing and releasing to WikiLeaks emails intended to damage Mrs. Clinton and help President Trump win the election.But the unclassified version of the report offered only thin corroborating information, many independent analysts have said. The treason arrests in Moscow hint at a possible human intelligence source in at least one hacking episode, the intrusion into state electoral boards in Arizona and Illinois.The confirmation by the Russian lawyer, Ivan Pavlov, in written answers to questions from The New York Times, was the closest so far to a formal acknowledgment that the Russian government has detained suspected spies within the cyberbranch of its Federal Security Service, or F.S.B., the main successor to the K.G.B.Mr. Pavlov declined to identify his client or elaborate on the reason for the indictment for “betraying the state,” punishable by up to 20 years in a penal colony.Kommersant, a Russian newspaper, first reported Wednesday on what the Russian news media are calling a purge of the cyberbranch of the F.S.B. that was conducted in early December.It reported that the Directorate for Internal Security, the agency’s internal affairs bureau, arrested Sergei Mikhailov, a deputy director of the Center for Information Security, the agency’s cybersecurity arm, and Ruslan Stoyanov, a senior researcher at a prominent cybersecurity company, Kaspersky Lab.Novaya Gazeta, a respected Russian opposition newspaper, reported Friday that the internal investigation led to two other arrests, and that all of the detentions were related to American investigations into Russian hacking during the election.The newspaper’s report, based on unnamed sources, said the F.S.B. began the internal investigation after news media reports that a United States cybersecurity company, ThreatConnect, had linked the election hacking to a Siberian server company. That company, King Servers, was otherwise used largely for criminal and marginal cyberactivities, such as distributing pornography and counterfeit goods, by the admission of its owner.The report said the investigation led to Mr. Mikhailov, a senior officer involved in tracking criminal cyberactivity in Russia.Both Novaya Gazeta, an outlet for the liberal opposition, and Tsargrad, a hard-line nationalist publication, reported that the F.S.B. made a brutal show of his arrest.Agents arrested Mr. Mikhailov with a theatrical touch, placing a bag over his head in the midst of a congress of senior intelligence agency officers in Moscow and leading him from the room, the two publications reported.“The arrest was certainly colorful,” Tsargrad’s report said. “Mikhailov was led from the congress of F.S.B. colleagues with a bag on his head.”Still, the fragmentary information about the arrests seemed, as is so often the case here, little more than shadows cast on a wall of real, unseen events taking place out of public view.The hints suggested to some analysts that the Russian government may be signaling that it might, however indirectly through a treason trial, reveal details of election hacking, which have the potential of damaging the administration of Mr. Trump.“They are suggesting it is true, and furthermore, they can prove as much,” Kenneth Geers, a former cyberanalyst with the Department of Defense and an authority on Russian signals intelligence tradecraft, said of the Russians possibly revealing details of their own operation.“They could increase the pressure on Trump in the United States by suggesting he is an illegitimate president,” Mr. Geers said, by simply verifying parts of what United States intelligence has already asserted that Russia did. “That would seem to put tremendous pressure on the White House.”Another, somewhat counterintuitive suggestion is that by documenting its role in the electoral hacks, the Kremlin could serve its foreign policy interests by underscoring the extent and power of its reach in the world. The Russian Foreign Ministry has denied any role in the hacking.ThreatConnect, the cybersecurity company that released the report about King Servers, said its analysis was based on information published by the F.B.I.The investigation into King Servers began after the hacking of state electoral board computers in Arizona and Illinois from June until August of last year. The F.B.I. published eight internet addresses used in those attacks.ThreatConnect then identified six of the eight addresses as originating from servers in Dronten, the Netherlands, owned by King Servers and run by Vladimir M. Fomenko, a 26-year-old living in a remote town in Siberia near the border with Mongolia. In an interview in September, Mr. Fomenko denied any role in the electoral hacking, but conceded clients who had rented his servers may have used them for that purpose.ThreatConnect declined to comment after the arrests in Moscow.Deepening the sense of intrigue in Moscow, Tsargrad, the nationalist publication, and RBC, a respected business newspaper, identified on Friday a third suspect, Dmitry Dokuchayev. Described as a former hacker going by the pseudonym Forb who was recruited by the F.S.B., Mr. Dokuchayev had agreed to work in the Center for Information Security to avoid arrest for credit card fraud, a rampant crime in Russia.RBC also reported an alternative theory about the entire counterintelligence investigation, saying it began after a hacking group, Shaltai Boltai, or Humpty Dumpty, stole the emails of a senior Russian official a year ago.That investigation of email theft led to Mr. Dokuchayev, the former hacker turned F.S.B. employee, the newspaper said, in a version that would seem unrelated to the United States election hacking.In a 2004 interview with Vedomosti newspaper, apparently before his reported recruitment by the F.S.B., Mr. Dokuchayev openly described himself as a hacker, believing that “information should be free” and calling his “crowning achievement” the hacking of an unspecified United States government website.
The Russian team of Evgenia Tarasova and Vladimir Morozov won gold in the pairs competition Thursday at the European championship in Ostrava, Czech Republic, for their first Continental title.Leading after the short program, the Russians performed to “Music” by John Miles in the free skate. Without visible flaws, their performance was enough to finish first over Aliona Savchenko and Bruno Massot of Germany.Kansas Coach Bill Self said that a police investigation of a reported rape at his team’s dormitory had given him no reason yet to discipline any players as the second-ranked Jayhawks prepared to play at No. 4 Kentucky on Saturday.Self acknowledged that the investigation, following a report last month regarding a 16-year-old girl, was a “major distraction.” No charges have been filed, although five of Self’s players were listed as witnesses on the police report.GONZAGA 79, SAN DIEGO 43 Nigel Williams-Goss scored 25 points as undefeated and third-ranked Gonzaga (21-0, 9-0 West Coast Conference) beat visiting San Diego (10-11, 3-6). Johnathan Williams added 13 points and 12 rebounds for Gonzaga, the only undefeated Division I men’s team.NORTH CAROLINA 91, VIRGINIA TECH 72 Justin Jackson scored 26 points, and No. 9 North Carolina (19-3, 7-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) hit a season-high 14 3-pointers to beat visiting Virginia Tech (15-5, 4-4).WOMEN’S GAMES Shatori Walker-Kimbrough scored 14 points to lead No. 3 Maryland (20-1, 8-0 Big Ten) to a 94-49 win over host Illinois (8-13, 3-5).  A’ja Wilson scored 19 points to help No. 5 South Carolina (18-1, 8-0 Southeastern Conference) to a 62-44 victory over host Georgia (10-10, 2-5).  Shakayla Thomas scored 17 points and No. 6 Florida State (20-2, 8-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) won its seventh straight game with a 69-63 road victory over Georgia Tech (13-7, 2-5).  Brianna Turner had 25 points and 12 rebounds, and No. 8 Notre Dame (19-3, 7-1 A.C.C.) held off No. 14 Duke (17-4, 5-3) with a 62-58 win in South Bend, Ind.Bulls guard Rajon Rondo criticized Dwyane Wade and Jimmy Butler in an Instagram rant for questioning the team’s desire, firing back one day after Chicago’s stars spoke out following a rough loss to Atlanta. Rondo’s post accompanied a photo of him with his former Celtics teammates Kevin Garnett and Paul Pierce. Often using the term “my vets,” Rondo said they would “never go to the media.”THUNDER 109, MAVERICKS 98 Russell Westbrook scored 45 points to help host Oklahoma City beat Dallas, but Thunder forward Enes Kanter will be out of action indefinitely after fracturing his right forearm while punching a chair.Andrew Ladd scored twice to lead the Islanders to a 3-1 victory over Montreal at Barclays Center that ended a seven-game losing streak to the Canadiens. Josh Bailey also had a goal, and Thomas Greiss stopped 21 shots.CAPITALS 5, DEVILS 2 Evgeny Kuznetsov scored twice, Alex Ovechkin had a goal and an assist, and Washington beat the Devils in Newark to head into the All-Star break with the most points in the N.H.L.FAMILY MATTER KEEPS COACH FROM ALL-STAR GAME John Tortorella, the coach of the Columbus Blue Jackets, has returned to Ohio because of a family emergency that will keep him out of the N.H.L. All-Star Game this weekend.Brittany Lincicome’s nine-under-par 64 gave her the first-round lead in the L.P.G.A. Tour’s season-opening Pure Silk Bahamas Classic on Paradise Island. Stacy Lewis, Megan Khang and P. K. Kongkraphan were two shots back.Rio de Janeiro’s Maracanã stadium is without power after a dispute over unpaid electricity bills.The electric utility company Light said that power had been cut off at the stadium, which hosted the 2014 World Cup soccer final and the opening and closing ceremonies of last year’s Rio Olympics.The company said it was owed 3 million reais (about $940,000), with 1.3 million of that owed by a consortium managing the stadium. The rest, it said, was owed by the Rio 2016 Olympic organizers.UNITED REACHES ENGLISH FINAL Manchester United reached the English League Cup final after a 2-1 loss to Hull in the second leg of its semifinal. United, which won the first leg, 2-0, advanced with a 3-2 win on aggregate and will play Southampton in the final.BARCELONA IN SEMIFINALS ONCE AGAIN Lionel Messi scored one goal and played a role in the other four as Barcelona routed Real Sociedad, 5-2, to reach the Copa del Rey semifinals for the seventh straight season. Denis Suárez scored twice as Barcelona advanced, 6-2, on aggregate.
WASHINGTON — Ever since American intelligence agencies accused Russia of trying to influence the American election, there have been questions about the proof they had to support the accusation.But the news from Moscow may explain how the agencies could be so certain that it was the Russians who hacked the email of Hillary Clinton’s campaign and the Democratic National Committee. Two Russian intelligence officers who worked on cyberoperations and a Russian computer security expert have been arrested and charged with treason for providing information to the United States, according to multiple Russian news reports.As in most espionage cases, the details made public so far are incomplete, and some rumors in Moscow suggest that those arrested may be scapegoats in an internal power struggle over the hacking. Russian media reports link the charges to the disclosure of the Russian role in attacking state election boards, including the scanning of voter rolls in Arizona and Illinois, and do not mention the parallel attacks on the D.N.C. and the email of John Podesta, Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman.But one current and one former United States official, speaking about the classified recruitments on condition of anonymity, confirmed that human sources in Russia did play a crucial role in proving who was responsible for the hacking.The former official said the agencies were initially reluctant to disclose their certainty about the Russian role for fear of setting off a mole hunt in Moscow.The public disclosure of the arrests, and the severity of the treason charge, come at a delicate moment for President Trump.He has been loath to accept the intelligence agencies’ conclusion that Russia tried to help him win, which he sees as part of an effort to delegitimize his election.The Russian role will loom over the conversation with Mr. Putin that Mr. Trump is scheduled to have on Saturday since it was the Russian president who James R. Clapper Jr., the former director of national intelligence, told Congress ordered the hacking and leaking.One topic of the phone conversation is likely to be the sanctions that the Obama administration imposed on Russia, including ones that were imposed in December in retaliation for the election hacking.For months, Mr. Trump rejected the finding that Russia was behind the hacking, accusing the intelligence agencies of incompetence and political bias. After a classified briefing in New York a month ago, he grudgingly accepted that Russia had a role, while playing down the hacking by noting that China and other countries also hacked the United States.Steven L. Hall, a former C.I.A. head of Russian operations, said it was “very tempting and certainly reasonable” to connect the arrests to the American intelligence findings.But he added a cautionary note: “The rule of law doesn’t apply in Russia, and they manipulate the law to do whatever they want to do. So what they call treason may not be what we call treason.”Mark Galeotti, a Russia expert at the Institute of International Relations in Prague, noted that the intelligence agencies’ report on the election attack found with “high confidence” that Russia had carried out the election attack, which involved fake news stories and propaganda as well as the hacks and leaks.“It was always pretty obvious that they had more than just the computer evidence,” Mr. Galeotti said. “The arrests are a big deal.”The arrests, according to reports by the Russian newspaper Kommersant and Novaya Gazeta, among others, were made in early December and amounted to a purge of the cyberwing of the F.S.B., the main Russian intelligence and security agency.Those arrested by the agency’s internal affairs bureau included Sergei Mikhailov, a deputy director of the Center for Information Security, the agency’s computer security arm, and Ruslan Stoyanov, a senior researcher at a prominent Russian computer security company, Kaspersky Lab.A nationalist publication, Tsargrad, and RBC, a respected business newspaper, identified on Friday a third suspect, Dmitry Dokuchayev.Described as a former hacker who used the online pseudonym Forb, Mr. Dokuchayev had agreed to work for the F.S.B. to avoid prosecution for credit card fraud, a rampant crime in Russia.RBC also reported an alternative theory about the counterintelligence investigation, saying it may have begun after a hacking group, Shaltai Boltai, or Humpty Dumpty, stole the emails of a senior Russian official a year ago. By this account, the investigation of email theft led to Mr. Dokuchayev.Both Novaya Gazeta, an outlet for the liberal opposition, and the hard-line nationalist Tsargrad reported that the F.S.B. added a theatrical touch to the arrest of Mr. Mikhailov.Agents arresting the suspected spy placed a bag over his head in the midst of a congress of senior intelligence agency officers in Moscow and led him from the room, the two publications reported.“The arrest was certainly colorful,” Tsargrad’s report said. “Mikhailov was led from the congress of F.S.B. colleagues with a bag on his head.”The virtually simultaneous appearance of at least four prominent news reports on the arrests, citing numerous anonymous sources, suggested that the normally opaque Russian government wanted the information out, though it was unclear why.A prominent Russian criminal defense lawyer on Friday confirmed that the authorities in Moscow were prosecuting at least one computer security expert for treason.The confirmation by the Russian lawyer, Ivan Pavlov, in written answers to questions from The New York Times, came the closest so far to a formal acknowledgment of the arrests.Mr. Pavlov declined to identify his client or elaborate on the reason for the indictment for “betraying the state,” punishable by up to 20 years in a penal colony.The report in Novaya Gazeta said the F.S.B. began the internal investigation after news media reports that a United States cybersecurity company, ThreatConnect, had linked the election hacking to a Siberian server company.That company, King Servers, was otherwise used largely for criminal and marginal computer activities, such as distributing pornography and counterfeit goods, by the admission of its owner.The report said the investigation led to Mr. Mikhailov, a senior officer involved in tracking criminal computer activity in Russia.The hints suggested that the Russian government may be signaling that it might, however indirectly through a treason trial, reveal details of election hacking, which would have the potential to damage Mr. Trump’s administration.But there is another explanation, if something of a counterintuitive one: Documenting a Russian role in the electoral hacks could also serve Moscow’s foreign policy interests by underscoring the extent and power of the Kremlin’s reach in the world.Cyberattacks, mixed with information warfare, have proven a vital tool for the Kremlin, used in Europe and the Baltics before the attack on the United States election. And now, there is evidence of new meddling in France and Germany, both of which have major elections this year.The Russian Foreign Ministry has denied any role in the hacking.ThreatConnect, the cybersecurity company that released the report about King Servers, said its analysis was based on information published by the F.B.I.ThreatConnect declined to comment after the arrests in Moscow.
Any doubts that Hollywood would take sharp aim at President Trump’s immigration order were swiftly vanquished at the Screen Actors Guild Awards on Sunday night. Amid upsets, winner after winner lashed out at the policy, pleaded for acceptance of differences in a bitterly divided time and, in the case of the cast of “Stranger Things,” adopted the stance of political firebrands.“We will get past the lies, we will hunt monsters,” said David Harbour, a cast member of the Netflix series, which won for best television drama, as the audience roared its approval. “And when we are lost amid the hypocrisy and casual violence, we will punch some people in the face when they seek to destroy the weak and the disenfranchised and the marginalized.”The political defiance dominating the night almost overshadowed the upset wins: “Hidden Figures” picked up best film ensemble over “Moonlight,” and Denzel Washington, the star of “Fences,” won best actor over Casey Affleck in “Manchester by the Sea.” The Screen Actors Guild Awards are heavily predictive of Oscar wins, and actors make up the biggest branch of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which doles out those prizes next month.But in a weekend when the eyes of the world were fixed on the immigration order and widespread resistance to it, Hollywood was clearly primed to sound off.The awards, which were held at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles, opened with Ashton Kutcher welcoming viewers and “everyone in airports that belong in my America. You are a part of the fabric of who we are. And we love you, and we welcome you.”The mantle was quickly picked up by the night’s first winner, Julia Louis-Dreyfus (best actress in a comedy series for “Veep”).“My father fled religious persecution in Nazi-occupied France,” Ms. Dreyfus said. “I’m an American patriot. And I love this country, and because I love this country, I am horrified by its blemishes, and this immigrant ban is a blemish, and it is un-American.”Mahershala Ali, who won the award for best supporting film actor, made a heartfelt speech that touched on his experiences playing Juan in “Moonlight” and detailed how he bridged religious differences with his mother after he converted to Islam 17 years ago.“What I’ve learned from working on ‘Moonlight’ is, we see what happens when you persecute people,” Mr. Ali said, referring to the story of a gay black boy growing up in poverty in Miami. “They fold into themselves. And what I was so grateful about in having the opportunity to play Juan was, playing a gentleman who saw a young man folding into himself as a result of the persecution of his community, and taking that opportunity to uplift him and tell him that he mattered and that he was O.K. and accept him and, uh — I hope that we do a better job of that,” he said, to applause.“You know, when we kind of get caught up in the minutiae, the details that make us all different, I think there’s two ways of seeing that,” he said. “There’s an opportunity to see the texture of that person, the characteristics that make them unique.”“And then there’s an opportunity to go to war about it, and to say that that person is different than me, and I don’t like you, so let’s battle,” he continued. “My mother is an ordained minister. I’m a Muslim. She didn’t do back flips when I called her to tell her I converted 17 years ago. But I tell you now, we put things to the side, and I’m able to see her, she’s able to see me — we love each other, the love has grown, and that stuff is minutiae. It’s not that important.”Viola Davis, who won the award for best supporting actress for her performance in “Fences,” stood out for not taking a jab at the ban — because virtually every other winner did.Mr. Washington, accepting his award, called for a more empathetic society. Emma Stone, who won best actress in a feature for her performance in “La La Land,” ended her speech with, “Things are very inexcusable and scary and need action. I’m so grateful to be part of a group of people that cares.” Sarah Paulson, who won for best actress in a television mini-series, for “The People v. O.J. Simpson: American Crime Story,” urged people to donate to the A.C.L.U.Lily Tomlin, who won a lifetime achievement award, said, “The Doomsday Clock has been moved to two and a half minutes before midnight. And this award came just in the nick of time.” She later added, “What sign should I make for the next march? So much to do.”Bryan Cranston, winning best actor in a television movie for his performance as Lyndon B. Johnson in “All the Way,” said he was often asked what that president would think about Mr. Trump. “I honestly feel that 36 would put his arm around 45 and earnestly wish him success,” Mr. Cranston said. “And he would also whisper in his ear something he said often, as a form of encouragement and a cautionary tale: ‘Just don’t piss in the soup that all of us got to eat.’”And Taraji P. Henson, who starred in the night’s big winner, “Hidden Figures,” noted that the film was about unity, and she praised the real-life women the movie was based on for focusing on solutions. “When we put our differences aside and we come together as a human race. We win, love wins. Every time.”
At the 2017 SAG Awards on Sunday night, several winners used their acceptance speeches to denounce the policies of President Trump and to address the country’s deep divisions. Here are excerpts from speeches by Julia Louis-Dreyfus, who took home an award for “Veep,” Mahershala Ali, who won for “Moonlight,” and David Harbour, a star of “Stranger Things,” which won the SAG equivalent of best TV drama.Whether the Russians did or did not hack the voting of tonight’s SAG Awards, I look out on the million, or probably even a million and a half people in this room, and I say, this award is legitimate, and I won! I’m the winner, the winner is me — landslide!... To a less insane note, I’d like to say that I am a very proud member of this union, and I’m thrilled to be here tonight, and I thank the Screen Actors Guild. I want you all to know that I am the daughter of an immigrant. My father fled religious persecution in Nazi-occupied France, and I’m an American patriot. And I love this country. And because I love this country, I am horrified by its blemishes. This immigrant ban is a blemish, and it is un-American.... Our sister guild, the [Writers Guild], made a statement today that I would like to read because I am in complete agreeance with it. Our guilds are unions of storytellers who have always welcomed those from the nations and of varying beliefs who wish to share their creativity with America. We are grateful for them. We stand with them, and we will fight for them. Thank you very much.... I would just like to say that in light of all that’s going on in the world today, it’s difficult to celebrate the already celebrated “Stranger Things.” But this award from you who take your craft seriously and earnestly believe, like me, that great acting can change the world. [It’s] a call to arms from our fellow craftsmen and women to go deeper and through our art to battle against fear, self-centeredness and exclusivity of our predominantly narcissistic culture, and through our craft to cultivate a more empathetic and understanding society by revealing intimate truths that serve as a forceful reminder to folks that when they feel broken and afraid and tired they are not alone.We are united in that we are all human beings and we are all together on this horrible, painful, joyous, exciting and mysterious ride that is being alive. Now, as we act in the continuing narrative of “Stranger Things,” we 1983 Midwesterners will repel bullies, we will shelter freaks and outcasts, those who have no homes. We will get past the lies. We will hunt monsters. And when we are at a loss amidst the hypocrisy and the casual violence of certain individuals and institutions we will, as per Chief Jim Hopper, punch some people in the face when they seek to destroy the weak and the disenfranchised and the marginalized and we will do it with soul, with heart and with joy. We thank you for this responsibility. Thank you.What I’ve learned from working on “Moonlight” is, we see what happens when you persecute people. They fold into themselves. And what I was so grateful about in having the opportunity to play Juan was, playing a gentleman who saw a young man folding into himself as a result of the persecution of his community, and taking that opportunity to uplift him and tell him that he mattered and that he was O.K. and accept him and, uh — I hope that we do a better job of that.You know, when we kind of get caught up in the minutiae, the details that make us all different, I think there’s two ways of seeing that. There’s an opportunity to see the texture of that person, the characteristics that make them unique.And then there’s an opportunity to go to war about it, and to say that that person is different than me, and I don’t like you, so let’s battle. My mother is an ordained minister. I’m a Muslim. She didn’t do back flips when I called her to tell her I converted 17 years ago. But I tell you now, we put things to the side, and I’m able to see her, she’s able to see me — we love each other, the love has grown, and that stuff in minutiae. It’s not that important.”
Any doubts that Hollywood would take sharp aim at President Trump’s immigration order were swiftly vanquished at the Screen Actors Guild Awards on Sunday night. Amid upsets, winner after winner lashed out at the policy, pleaded for acceptance of differences in a bitterly divided time and, in the case of the cast of “Stranger Things,” adopted the stance of political firebrands.“We will get past the lies, we will hunt monsters,” said David Harbour, a cast member of that Netflix series, which won for best television drama, as the audience roared its approval. “And when we are lost amid the hypocrisy and casual violence, we will punch some people in the face when they seek to destroy the weak and the disenfranchised and the marginalized.”The political defiance dominating the night almost overshadowed the upset wins: “Hidden Figures” picked up best film ensemble over “Moonlight,” and Denzel Washington, the star of “Fences,” won best actor over Casey Affleck in “Manchester by the Sea.” The Screen Actors Guild Awards are heavily predictive of Oscar wins, and actors make up the biggest branch of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, which doles out those prizes next month.But in a weekend when the eyes of the world were fixed on the immigration order and widespread resistance to it, Hollywood was clearly primed to sound off.The awards, held at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles, opened with Ashton Kutcher welcoming viewers and “everyone in airports that belong in my America.” He added: You are a part of the fabric of who we are. And we love you, and we welcome you.”The mantle was quickly picked up by the night’s first winner, Julia Louis-Dreyfus (best actress in a comedy series for “Veep”).“My father fled religious persecution in Nazi-occupied France,” Ms. Louis-Dreyfus said. “I’m an American patriot. And I love this country, and because I love this country, I am horrified by its blemishes, and this immigrant ban is a blemish, and it is un-American.”Mahershala Ali, who won best supporting film actor, made a heartfelt speech that touched on his experiences playing Juan in “Moonlight” and detailed how he bridged religious differences with his mother after he converted to Islam 17 years ago.“What I’ve learned from working on ‘Moonlight’ is, we see what happens when you persecute people,” Mr. Ali said, referring to the story of a gay black boy growing up in poverty in Miami. “They fold into themselves. And what I was so grateful about in having the opportunity to play Juan was, playing a gentleman who saw a young man folding into himself as a result of the persecution of his community, and taking that opportunity to uplift him and tell him that he mattered and that he was O.K. and accept him and, uh — I hope that we do a better job of that,” he said, to applause.“You know, when we kind of get caught up in the minutiae, the details that make us all different, I think there’s two ways of seeing that,” he said. “There’s an opportunity to see the texture of that person, the characteristics that make them unique.”“And then there’s an opportunity to go to war about it, and to say that that person is different than me, and I don’t like you, so let’s battle,” he continued. “My mother is an ordained minister. I’m a Muslim. She didn’t do back flips when I called her to tell her I converted 17 years ago. But I tell you now, we put things to the side, and I’m able to see her, she’s able to see me — we love each other, the love has grown, and that stuff is minutiae. It’s not that important.”Viola Davis, who won best supporting actress for her performance in “Fences,” stood out for not taking a jab at the ban — because virtually every other winner did.Mr. Washington, accepting his award, called for a more empathetic society. Emma Stone, who won best actress in a feature for her performance in “La La Land,” ended her speech with: “Things are very inexcusable and scary and need action. I’m so grateful to be part of a group of people that cares.”Sarah Paulson, who won for best actress in a television mini-series, for “The People v. O. J. Simpson: American Crime Story,” urged people to donate to the American Civil Liberties Union.Lily Tomlin, given a lifetime achievement award, said, “The Doomsday Clock has been moved to two-and-a-half minutes before midnight. And this award came just in the nick of time.” She later added: “What sign should I make for the next march? So much to do.”Bryan Cranston, winning best actor in a television movie for playing Lyndon B. Johnson in “All the Way,” said he was often asked what that president would think about Mr. Trump. “I honestly feel that 36 would put his arm around 45 and earnestly wish him success,” Mr. Cranston said. “And he would also whisper in his ear something he said often, as a form of encouragement and a cautionary tale: ‘Just don’t piss in the soup that all of us got to eat.’”And Taraji P. Henson, who starred in the night’s big winner, “Hidden Figures,” noted that that film was about unity, and she praised the real-life women the movie was based on for focusing on solutions. “When we put our differences aside and we come together as a human race, we win, love wins. Every time.”
The annual custom of the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner suddenly seems uncomfortable if not untenable: Journalists mingling with Trump administration aides who loathe them, celebrities decrying Trump White House policies, and an entertainment headliner grappling with the tone and boldness of jokes about President Trump himself.But Samantha Bee is not waiting to see how this year’s soiree unfolds or if those involved decide to hold it at all.Instead, Ms. Bee, host of the topical TBS comedy show “Full Frontal With Samantha Bee,” and her colleagues are planning a counter-event that will take place in Washington on April 29, the same night as the Correspondents’ Association dinner.This alternative gala, which is being called “Not the White House Correspondents’ Dinner” and is expected to be announced officially on Monday, will be at the Willard Hotel. Ms. Bee said that it was not an attempt to comment on or compete with that other, better-known banquet, but a night to include jokes about Mr. Trump that she and like-minded comedians want to make.“We’re not trying to supersede it,” she said in a telephone interview. “We just want to be there in case something happens — or doesn’t happen — and ensure that we get to properly roast the president.”Ms. Bee said that she and her “Full Frontal” producers got the idea for their event after Mr. Trump’s election in November.“We were talking out loud about whether we thought the White House Correspondents’ dinner would change during a Trump presidency, or if it would even exist,” she said. “And then we thought, Why don’t we just do one, just to do it in the way that we would want it done if we were hosting it?”The “Not the White House Correspondents’ Dinner” will probably be shown on TBS in some form; Ms. Bee said that those details were still being worked out, as was a lineup of talent.“We have binders full of people, but we don’t have any specifics to offer yet,” she said. Ms. Bee said that proceeds from her event would go to the Committee to Protect Journalists.The decades-old dinner held by the Correspondents’ Association, which advocates press accessibility at the White House and gives out journalism awards and scholarships, has come under scrutiny in recent years.Some news organizations and observers regard it as a too-chummy atmosphere for reporters to hobnob with the officials they are supposed to be covering objectively and adversarially. (The New York Times stopped sending journalists to the dinner in 2008.)The event has also been the scene of two notorious incidents. At the 2006 dinner, its featured performer, Stephen Colbert, delivered a scathing satirical takedown of President George W. Bush. Mr. Colbert’s performance, in the guise of the arrogant right-wing political commentator he played on Comedy Central, appeared to offend Mr. Bush and several of his aides, though it was widely celebrated by television and internet viewers. (The next year, the Correspondents’ Association invited Rich Little.)In 2011, Mr. Trump, then a civilian and a guest at the dinner, sat stone-faced as he was mocked relentlessly by President Obama and Seth Meyers for having promoted the false theory that Mr. Obama was not born in the United States.Mr. Obama said of Mr. Trump at the time: “Now he can get to focusing on the issues that matter. Like, did we fake the moon landing? What really happened at Roswell? And where are Biggie and Tupac?”Mr. Trump lashed out the next morning, in an interview with The Times, saying Mr. Meyers had “no talent” and acknowledging his discomfort — “I am not looking to laugh along with my enemies” — while also speaking at length about possibly running for the presidency.Given the open hostility that Mr. Trump and his administration have displayed for the news media, some journalists have wondered if the Correspondents’ Association dinner is a tradition worth preserving. Would Mr. Trump even attend this year, and what entertainer could make jokes about him without getting underneath his oft-demonstrated thin skin? Comedians have only started figuring out how to riff on Mr. Trump as president, and there is a wide gulf between what Trump supporters and detractors think is funny about him.The Correspondents’ Association has not announced its entertainer for the April dinner, and Ms. Bee said she had no expectation of being asked.“My assumption is that that invitation is not coming,” she said, “and I don’t blame them for that at all.”Addressing the Correspondents’ Association, she said: “I honestly can’t imagine what they’re thinking, but I really wish them well. I think that’s going to be very challenging. Does 3 Doors Down do comedy? I don’t know, maybe they do.”
Sampha, the experimental British pop singer and electronic producer, sounds like someone who has seen things.For years, some of the biggest names in music (and the best talent scouts) — including Drake, Beyoncé, Kanye West and Solange — have deployed his lush, tender soprano, which can feel wounded but never weak, to telegraph their vulnerability. Through guest appearances on tell-all songs like Drake’s “Too Much” and Mr. West’s “Saint Pablo,” Sampha has made himself a go-to collaborator for those in search of emotional heft.So it’s peculiar, then, given his ability to touch souls with his voice, that Sampha (born Sampha Sisay) long shied away from singing. As a child, he was known at home mainly as a dancer, doing Michael Jackson moves at the urging of his four much older brothers. When a career in music dawned on him, he thought of becoming a producer like Pharrell or Timbaland.“When I started, I was just making lots of beats, and I wasn’t even intending to sing over them,” Sampha said last month in a low murmur, trailing off more often than he finished sentences. “I didn’t even have a microphone at home — I would have to go to someone else’s house to record.”But with such a singular gift, that couldn’t last. On Friday, Sampha, 28, will release his first full-length album, “Process,” marking the culmination of many personal battles — with his artistic purpose, his familial obligations and his general aversion to attention — firmly and finally establishing himself as one of the premier talents in independent music.Richard Russell, a producer and the founder of XL Recordings, which released Adele’s first two albums as well as work by the xx and FKA twigs through the label’s tastemaking Young Turks imprint, called Sampha “as gifted as anyone I’ve ever worked with” but also noted his “genuine humility, which you don’t necessarily expect from people with that level of talent.”Mr. Russell added: “He doesn’t want to be the center of attention. That’s why there’s been this appropriately long period of time building up to him more fully putting himself out into the world as a solo artist.”Sampha’s reluctance could ultimately prove limiting to his career path. “I’m never going to be that famous,” he said during an undisturbed walk across downtown Manhattan, as if he were counting on a life of anonymity. “It’s not the thing I’m going for.” But, he added, “I am careful that I can be naïve.”There were other considerations during his slow ascent beyond self-consciousness. As Sampha’s somewhat mystical reputation bloomed, taking him to studios in Italy with Kanye and Staten Island with Solange — and priming an eager industry for his star turn — he was called home in late 2014 to the London suburb of Morden to care for his ailing mother, who had cancer. (His father had died from the disease nearly a decade earlier.)“The only times I would go and make music was when she was in the hospital for the day,” Sampha said. As a caregiver, “you can become a little bit numb because you have to be very functional,” he said. But songwriting, which he tends to do improvisationally at the piano, “helped to sort of realize the gravitas of things and helped me reconnect and empathize with my mom,” he said.“There’s a lot that I wouldn’t really know I was feeling until I started playing the piano and singing,” he added.“Process,” which is meant to convey the word’s multiple meanings, is inevitably raw.“This album doesn’t necessarily feel like the summation of my life experiences,” Sampha said. “It was very much about things I was learning and going through in that time period.”After his mother died in the fall of 2015, Sampha took a brief trip to his family’s native Sierra Leone to bury her, then got right back to work, retreating to a remote island in Norway to finish the album. “I don’t know if it was the best thing for me, but it’s what I did,” he said. “People obviously recover in all different types of ways.”Amid his grieving, Sampha balanced his introverted tendencies with a move toward more confessional songwriting. Still, on the album, he often obscures his bleak, personal subject matter with intricate, left-field digital production and abstract metaphors, as on the spacey opening ballad, “Plastic 100°C,” which disorients with sound effects, and the frantic single “Blood on Me.”He isn’t all dour. “Timmy’s Prayer” has a buttery falsetto hook, and when performing it live, Sampha even gets up from behind the keys to shake his hips a bit. But “Process” is most affecting when it is most bare. On “(No One Knows Me) Like the Piano,” the album’s percussionless beating heart, Sampha sings:“It’s quite, like, an intimate song,” Sampha said the day after it was released online, and the day before he performed it live, alone against a burnt-orange-and-red backdrop, on “The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon.” Though he had largely come to terms with sharing parts of himself, putting that song into the world stirred unexpected feelings.“I was conscious about not wanting to use things of that nature as some sort of emotional currency,” Sampha said. “I hope I’m not exploiting it.”But being so open has also proved rewarding. “There was a bit of me sometimes thinking: Why is this person standing in front of me listening to me sing? What is it about my lyrics or my voice? Why?” he said. “I do feel like part of it is being a vulnerable male — a black male — singing about things that might not necessarily be particularly …” He trailed off again.“For me, the beautiful thing about writing some of the songs I did is that when I listen to them, I have a feeling and a memory of that time,” he said. “The benefit of having some of those songs is that I can listen and be transported roughly back to the time or the feeling — even if it’s negative. Feeling anything is better than feeling nothing.”
SAN FRANCISCO — San Francisco on Tuesday became the first city in the country to sue President Trump over his order to withhold federal funding from so-called sanctuary cities, saying the order was unconstitutional.In a lawsuit filed with the United States District Court of the Northern District of California, San Francisco’s city attorney, Dennis Herrera, requested an injunction on the Trump administration’s attempted crackdown on sanctuary cities, which limit city agencies and local law enforcement from assisting in the enforcement of federal immigration laws.“You can’t put a gun to the head of states and localities to get them to comply with what you might want at the federal level,” Mr. Herrera said.The Trump order says it is in the interest of public safety for local officials to cooperate with federal immigration authorities and seeks to withhold federal grants from municipalities that have sanctuary city policies.San Francisco is home to around 30,000 undocumented residents, Mr. Herrera said. The city receives around $1.2 billion in federal funding, but city officials say it is unclear how much is at risk. San Francisco’s sanctuary city law took effect in 1989.In a news conference at City Hall, Mr. Herrera said the executive order was unconstitutional because it “tries to turn city and state employees into federal immigration enforcers.”San Francisco’s mayor, Edwin M. Lee, argued that forcing city officials to assist federal immigration authorities would make the city less safe because illegal immigrants would be afraid to cooperate with the police.“Sanctuary cities are safer,” Mr. Lee said. “You talk to our police chief and our sheriff and other law enforcement professionals, they believe having open communications with all elements of our society is much more preferable.”In San Francisco, a city proud of its liberal traditions, Mr. Trump received 10 percent of the vote in November. Protests have erupted here over the Trump order on sanctuary cities and the order limiting immigration from predominantly Muslim countries.Mr. Lee said the city was aware of the risk of confronting the Trump administration. “It’s no surprise that this president might continue to target us,” he said. “We have to be ready.”San Francisco featured in the debate over sanctuary city policies in 2015 after a resident, Kathryn Steinle, 32, was shot and killed by Juan Francisco López-Sánchez, an immigrant who was in the country illegally, had a criminal record and had been deported at least five times.Mr. Trump seized on the killing as “yet another example of why we must secure our border.”Mr. Lee has said the killing “should never have happened” because San Francisco’s sanctuary city policy allows for cooperation with federal immigration authorities when dealing with felons.Hundreds of cities could potentially be affected by the administration’s order, said Grisel Ruiz, a staff attorney at the Immigrant Legal Resource Center in San Francisco. But she cautioned that there was no clear definition of a sanctuary city and that they varied greatly in degree of cooperation with federal authorities.
Researchers, academic officials and science policy makers are expressing alarm at President Trump’s order barring entry to the United States to people from certain predominantly Muslim countries, saying it could hinder research, affect recruitment of top scientists and dampen the free exchange of scientific ideas.The executive order, issued on Friday and clarified somewhat over the weekend by administration officials, potentially affects thousands of students and researchers from Iran, Iraq and five other countries. Foreigners fill the undergraduate and especially graduate ranks at many American universities, and newly minted Ph.D.s from overseas flock to the United States for research and teaching positions in academic laboratories.Mary Sue Coleman, the president of the Association of American Universities, said that by one estimate, there were about 17,000 students from the seven countries at American universities.“I’m concerned about it hampering our ability to recruit outstanding graduate students,” said Samuel L. Stanley Jr., the president of Stony Brook University on Long Island. Dr. Stanley spent the weekend monitoring the work of immigration lawyers in a successful effort to release a Stony Brook graduate student from Iran, Vahideh Rasekhi, who was en route to Kennedy Airport when the order was issued and was detained after she landed.“Immigration into the United States is tremendously important to science,” said Soumya Raychaudhuri, a Harvard Medical School professor whose Iranian postdoctoral researcher, Samira Asgari, was barred on Saturday from boarding a flight to begin her job in his laboratory at Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston. “There are other countries competing for this talent pool, and walking away from that jeopardizes our standing.”Some foreign universities, while condemning the ban, also pointed out that they still welcomed students and researchers from anywhere. The University of British Columbia announced the establishment of a task force, with an initial budget of 250,000 Canadian dollars (about $190,000), “to determine what assistance the university can offer those affected.”Since the restrictions, some institutions, including the University of Pennsylvania and the University of California system, have advised students or faculty members from Iran, Iraq and the other affected countries not to travel overseas until further notice.The order could prevent many foreign researchers from making short-term trips to attend conferences and other scientific meetings overseas for fear of not being able to return. The restrictions could also affect meetings in the United States, as some foreign scientists would not be allowed to travel here.The country’s largest general scientific organization, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, said it was worried that the restrictions might reduce attendance at its annual meeting in two weeks in Boston. Hundreds of foreigners normally attend the conference. “We are of course concerned that this issue may affect scientists and students traveling to Boston,” said Tiffany Lohwater, an official with the association. She said the organization was considering alternative measures, including free live-streaming of sessions, for those who could not attend.Jennifer Golbeck, a professor of computer science at the University of Maryland, said her department had a number of Iranian students and researchers. Using social media, Dr. Golbeck in recent days has organized a database of people willing to shelter scientists and others who were in transit to the United States and were halted by the order.“There’s a lot of people from these seven countries,” Dr. Golbeck said. “And suddenly there’s this possibility that faculty members, students, postdocs and others who are outside the country for one reason or another suddenly can’t come back.”Solmaz Shariat Torbaghan, an Iranian neuroscience researcher at New York University who was awaiting a green card, said the order would force her to soon make a decision: stay and take her chances, or move to Canada. “My partner and I just moved into a new place here, we are waiting for our furniture, and were hoping to have our parents visit us in a couple of months, which is not a possibility anymore,” she said. “Now, I don’t know what’s coming next.”The uncertainty, she added, is not good for her research colleagues, either. “People in my lab are very supportive,” she said, “but in an experimental lab, people need to know they can count on you, that you’re not going to be suddenly gone and leave the project.”The order may also affect work at some of the country’s most prestigious medical institutions.Eleven patients from the seven affected countries, which also include Syria, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen, were planning to travel to Johns Hopkins University for medical treatment within the next 90 days, said Pamela Paulk, the president of Johns Hopkins Medicine International. All have visas, she said, but now it is not clear whether or when they may come.“We are taking steps to see what the ban means for them,” she said. “Right now the ban is vague, and we don’t know if there will be health exceptions.”She said that patients who travel from the Middle East to the United States for treatment generally have severe illnesses that cannot be treated in their home countries, and need complex treatments like neurosurgery, heart operations or bone marrow transplants for cancer or blood diseases. Some cannot afford, medically, to wait.Johns Hopkins may also lose at least one graduate student. Omid Zobeiri, 28, is an Iranian citizen who began working on his doctorate in biomedical engineering in September 2015 at McGill University in Montreal. His mentor and supervisor at McGill moved to Johns Hopkins last summer and hoped to take Mr. Zobeiri with her so he could continue the research he had begun in her laboratory.Mr. Zobeiri applied for a visa during the summer, but had not received one yet when the ban was announced on Friday. “After this ban, I basically give up right now, or wait some months,” Mr. Zobeiri said. “I don’t know my future.”Kathleen Cullen, Mr. Zobeiri’s supervisor and a professor of biomedical engineering, described him as “phenomenally talented and a wonderful scientist,” and said he had been selected from among many applicants.She said his being kept out of the United States was “a major impediment and is slowing the pace of research in my group.”
The Screen Actors Guild Awards took place at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles. See what celebrities like Michelle Williams, Emma Stone, Viola Davis, Rami Malek and more wore.
Nick Davies, the former right-hand man of Sebastian Coe, the president of track and field’s governing body, was expelled from the group Tuesday after admitting to concealing cash payments during the previous administration.However, Davies was cleared of corruption charges and was allowed to continue working in track and field and at events organized by the governing body, the International Association of Athletics Federations.Davies was found to have misled French judicial authorities, the I.A.A.F. and investigators from the World Anti-Doping Agency over 30,000 euros ($32,000 at the current exchange rate) that he received ahead of the 2013 world championships.Davies said that 25,000 euros was provided as “extra funds which should be used at my discretion to improve the media mood” at the world championships in Moscow. Davies said that he spent only a “fraction” of the cash because there was no major crisis at the event and that he kept the balance. Another envelope of 5,000 euros was described as a bonus to “recognize my attitude and good work.”The Jets hired John Morton, the New Orleans Saints’ wide receivers coach, as their offensive coordinator. Morton replaces Chan Gailey, who retired after the season following two years on Coach Todd Bowles’s staff.Kyle Palmieri scored twice, and Cory Schneider made 27 saves, helping the Devils hold on for a 4-3 win over the Red Wings in Detroit.Dropped by the N.F.L., St. Louis and San Diego are among the bidders from 12 areas applying for four Major League Soccer expansion teams. Others to submit bids were groups from Charlotte, N.C.; Cincinnati; Detroit; Indianapolis; Nashville; Phoenix; Raleigh-Durham, N.C.; Sacramento; San Antonio; and Tampa-St. Petersburg, Fla. The teams have $150 million expansion fees.HULL ACTIVE ON TRANSFER FRONT Hull, which is in danger of relegation from the Premier League, was a big mover on the final day of Europe’s winter transfer window. Midfielder Alfred N’Diaye signed on a temporary deal from Villarreal until the end of the season, subject to international clearance. Defender Andrea Ranocchia also joined on loan from Inter Milan.With De’Aaron Fox sidelined, No. 8 Kentucky (18-4, 8-1 Southeastern Conference) stumbled early at home, but Malik Monk scored 37 points as the Wildcats beat Georgia (13-9, 4-5), 90-81, in overtime in the final game of the career of the longtime broadcaster Brent Musburger.  (NYT)AROUND THE N.C.A.A. Justin Jackson scored 20 points, and No. 12 North Carolina (20-4, 8-2 Atlantic Coast Conference) held on to beat visiting Pittsburgh (12-10, 1-8), 80-78.  Nathan Adrian scored a career-high 23 points as No. 7 West Virginia (18-4, 6-3 Big 12) overwhelmed host Iowa State (13-8, 5-4), 85-72.  Ethan Happ scored 14 points and led the way as No. 10 Wisconsin (19-3, 8-1 Big Ten) rolled past host Illinois (13-10, 3-7), 57-43.  No. 22 Creighton (20-3, 7-3 Big East) made 13 3-pointers as it ran away from No. 16 Butler (18-5, 7-4), 76-67, in Indianapolis.Kawhi Leonard scored 36 points, and the San Antonio Spurs held Russell Westbrook scoreless in the fourth quarter for a 108-94 home win over the Oklahoma City Thunder.Mikaela Shiffrin won a parallel slalom city event in Stockholm to extend her overall World Cup lead, beating Veronika Velez Zuzulova in the two-run final. Shiffrin’s victory stretched her overall lead to 180 points over Lara Gut, who skipped the event to rest a bruised right arm and thigh.
The Haggler has never been married because, as the world knows, he is a fictional construct operating in the nonfictional world. But even if he were a corporeal being, he could never pledge his troth to another. He is married to the quest for consumer justice, and this takes up his every waking second.You think he has time for a date? Pshaw.“But Haggler,” you say, “aren’t you just making excuses? Isn’t the real problem your famously disagreeable personality, not to mention that if you were a corporeal being, you would have very poor grooming habits?”They have nothing to do with it! Look, a lot of people with disagreeable personalities and poor grooming habits have very satisfying personal lives. The Haggler is not one of them. But only because he is devoted to his readers — who should therefore think twice before insulting him. Again.O.K., the Haggler just counted to 10, in order to regain his composure. Now he is taking deep breaths.The monastic life isn’t for everyone, of course, and the Haggler is happy that millions of others take the bold leap into matrimony. The Haggler is there in spirit, tossing confetti, welling up with tears and hovering near the ice mound of all-you-can-eat shrimp. Most important, he is there whenever there is a problem with a wedding-related contractor. Like this one:Q. Two years ago, I hired Brian Kelly Multimedia LLC in Greenville S.C., to videotape my daughter’s wedding. We paid half the cost up front, and paid the rest on Oct. 11, 2015, a total of $1,700.Brian filmed both the wedding and the reception. He told us we would have a copy of the video in six months or less. We have never seen a frame of it. I’ve called him a number of times and written emails. He replied to one of those emails, in April of last year, telling me that he would send the tape in three weeks. That was the last time I heard from him.This wedding was very special to us. My daughter, Kellie, is my only child. If you can help us resolve this issue we would really appreciate it.Jeannine HeathHendersonville, N.C.A. What do we know about Brian Kelly? Well, if we are to believe his company’s website, he is a self-effacing type who is very reluctant to brag about himself, even on the About Us page, a place where bragging is kind of required.“I am much more comfortable telling other people’s stories rather than my own,” he writes. “And maybe that is my story. Quite simply, I enjoy capturing the things that only happen once, and telling the story of the couple through video.”Next to this testimonial there is a photograph of a middle-aged guy with dark hair, grinning the way a teddy bear would if teddy bears could grin. Everything about the image says, “You can definitely trust me because I’m very sensitive and friendly.”That said, we also know that the Upstate South Carolina chapter of the Better Business Bureau recently issued an alert  about Brian Kelly Multimedia, titled “Customers Regret Saying I Do With Local Company.” Part of it reads, “Consumers confirm that the company is responsive leading up to the event, and the problems begin to arise once the company asks for the second installment of their fee.” The B.B.B. gives the company an F rating.In addition, records show that Mr. Kelly has filed for bankruptcy on several occasions.We know a bit more. The profile picture on his Facebook page shows him holding a beer while wearing a T-shirt that reads “Hold My Beer.” According to the bio on that page, he once worked at Long John Silver’s Seafood Shoppe, and was promoted through its nautically themed ranks from “Seaman Apprentice” to “First Mate.”And that is about all we know. Because the Haggler’s attempts to reach Mr. Kelly, whose website suggests that the company is still booking new business, failed to produce any response. A call to his home number was answered by a woman who said that Mr. Kelly was busy but would return the call.He never did.It has been a while since a company/business owner has cold-shouldered the Haggler, and it will come as no surprise that he disapproves of this tactic. There is something especially terrible about this case because no one other than Mr. Kelly was on hand to videotape the wedding of Ms. Heath’s daughter. All she wants, at this point, is the raw footage of the event. Even if Mr. Kelly is having financial troubles, surely he could mail a disc or two of uncut video.The Haggler hoped to propose a very simple plan to Mr. Kelly: Send Ms. Heath the tape of her daughter’s wedding, and — if it really is the tape of the wedding — she’ll drop any claims to the polished and carefully edited production that was promised.But it’s hard to suggest a plan to a person who won’t return your calls. So the Haggler will keep trying. (As noted before, he has nothing better to do.) Check this space in two weeks. With any luck, there will be some happy news to report.
WASHINGTON — Bolstered by a growing backlash to President Trump’s immigration order, Senate Democrats on Monday steeled themselves to slow the confirmation of cabinet nominees, dimming prospects for cooperation with the new White House.But each Democratic demand for procedural minutiae and details on nominees’ stances on Mr. Trump’s travel ban illuminated an immutable fact: There is little Democrats can do to stop Republicans from ramming through both Mr. Trump’s cabinet and their policy agenda.Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, set the tone as lawmakers straggled back to Washington from a weekend extended by their political party retreats. He released a list of eight Trump cabinet nominees he intended to oppose, including Representative Tom Price of Georgia, for secretary of health and human services, and Scott Pruitt, the Oklahoma attorney general, to lead the Environmental Protection Agency.Mr. Schumer also voiced steadfast opposition to Rex W. Tillerson, the nominee for secretary of state; Betsy DeVos, chosen for secretary of education; and Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, nominated for attorney general. “Nothing will change that,” Mr. Schumer said.Republicans hardened their resolve, as well, ignoring Democratic calls to delay a Monday evening procedural vote on Mr. Tillerson’s nomination until he clarifies his position on Mr. Trump’s executive order barring immigration from seven predominantly Muslim countries. The Senate voted, 56 to 43, to move forward, setting up a final confirmation vote that is expected to come on Wednesday.A committee vote on Ms. DeVos’s nomination is set for Tuesday, a week later than planned after Democrats requested time to ask her more questions. Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and the committee’s chairman, refused a request for another delay.“I believe there are still many unanswered questions remaining about her tangled finances, potential conflicts of interest and plans to privatize and defund public education,” said Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the committee’s top Democrat.Democrats succeeded in postponing a committee vote on Steven Mnuchin, Mr. Trump’s treasury secretary nominee — though only by a few hours. His vote has been rescheduled for Tuesday.Committee votes are expected on Tuesday on the nominations of Mr. Price and Mr. Sessions.Senator Al Franken, Democrat of Minnesota, said in a recent MSNBC interview that he expected all Democrats to oppose Ms. DeVos. Yet they will ultimately have no recourse to block Mr. Trump’s cabinet nominees without Republican votes. Democrats did away with the option to filibuster cabinet picks in 2013.The Senate has traditionally deferred to first-term presidents assembling their teams; according to the Senate Historical Office, only once has the Senate rejected a cabinet nominee for a president just starting out. That nominee was John G. Tower, who was nominated for defense secretary by President George Bush in 1989. He was rejected by a 53-to-47 vote amid concerns about potential conflicts of interest and his personal life.Frustrated by Republicans’ insistence last year on stalling President Barack Obama’s nomination of Merrick B. Garland to the Supreme Court, Democrats are less interested in playing nice on nominations, and there is a sense that Mr. Trump’s immigration order only worsened matters.As Mr. Trump teased the prime-time television announcement of his Supreme Court nominee, scheduled for Tuesday, Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon became the first Democrat to vow to block any nominee other than Mr. Garland. It was a potent threat, considering Supreme Court nominees can still be filibustered.“My point is that this is a stolen seat,” Mr. Merkley said in an interview on Monday. He said that because Republicans refused to even hold a hearing on Mr. Garland’s nomination, no other nominee was a “legitimate” pick.Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, criticized Democrats for suggesting they would probably block whomever Mr. Trump nominated. The argument is sure to raise Democratic ire considering Mr. McConnell’s vow less than a year ago to block anyone Mr. Obama nominated shortly after Justice Antonin Scalia’s death.“The Senate should respect the result of the election and treat this newly elected president’s nominee in the same way that nominees of other newly elected presidents have been treated,” Mr. McConnell said on Monday. “And that is with careful consideration, followed by an up-or-down vote.”Democrats returned to the Capitol indignant over Mr. Trump’s immigration order, which played out in scenes of confusion and anguish at airports around the United States as even permanent residents were ensnared in the abrupt policy shift. But the lawmakers were also invigorated by a second straight weekend of nationwide protests.As the evening approached, Mr. Schumer called for a vote on a Democratic bill that would overturn Mr. Trump’s immigration order, a request that requires consent from majority Republicans.“So many of you know it’s wrong,” Mr. Schumer said on the Senate floor, appealing to his Republican colleagues. “I understand party loyalty, I do. But this order goes so against the American grain that there are higher values at stake.”Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, objected, and effectively ended the discussion. With little more they could do, Democrats bundled up and, clutching fake tea lights, crossed the street for a rally against the immigration order on the steps of the Supreme Court.
WASHINGTON — Senate Democrats significantly escalated tensions with the White House on Tuesday, stalling action on two of President Trump’s most important cabinet nominees, Steven T. Mnuchin to be Treasury secretary and Representative Tom Price to be secretary of health and human services.Democrats boycotted a meeting of the Senate Finance Committee that had been scheduled to vote on the two nominees. They said they had been misled by the nominees and wanted an opportunity to investigate unanswered questions about Mr. Price’s investments and Mr. Mnuchin’s role in a bank that has been criticized for aggressive foreclosure practices.Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, said Mr. Mnuchin had “out-and-out lied to our committee” about the robotic signing of foreclosure documents by the bank, OneWest, when he was its chief executive.The chairman of the committee, Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, said the Democrats were “very upset with Donald Trump” and had therefore “crippled his administration right out of the box” by delaying and obstructing approval of some of his nominees.“You have to go back to the Civil War to find things like this,” Mr. Hatch said.Looking at empty seats in the committee room normally occupied by Democrats, Mr. Hatch described their stall tactics as “the most pathetic thing” he had seen in his 40 years in the Senate.Under Finance Committee rules, the panel needs a quorum, including at least one member of the minority party, to conduct business.Democrats have no immediate prospect of stopping Trump nominees, but by dragging out the confirmation process, they said, they can slow Mr. Trump’s ability to carry out policies that many Democrats adamantly oppose.The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, said Democrats were “manufacturing issues on a daily basis” to string out the confirmation process and to hobble Mr. Trump. But he said: “None of this is going to lead to a different outcome. The cabinet appointments are going to be approved.”Democrats forced a delay of at least one day in a Judiciary Committee vote on Mr. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama.But other Trump nominees advanced on Tuesday. By a vote of 93 to 6, the Senate approved the nomination of Elaine L. Chao to be secretary of transportation.Senator Bill Nelson, Democrat of Florida, said that Ms. Chao, who served as labor secretary under President George W. Bush, was “a part of the Senate family” because she is married to Mr. McConnell. Mr. McConnell voted “present.” But the Senate Democratic leader, Chuck Schumer of New York, voted against Ms. Chao, saying she had refused to publicly state her position on Mr. Trump’s executive order closing the nation’s borders to refugees and to people from certain predominantly Muslim countries.By a vote of 12 to 11, the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions recommended confirmation of Betsy DeVos to be education secretary. Ms. DeVos, a Republican fund-raiser and donor, has been a champion of charter schools and vouchers, which give families public funds to help pay tuition at private schools.Mr. Trump’s pick for energy secretary, former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, won backing from the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, which voted 16 to 7 to recommend his confirmation. And by a vote of 16 to 6, that committee approved Representative Ryan Zinke, Republican of Montana, to lead the Interior Department. Another Senate committee voted 18 to 1 to approve Linda McMahon, a former wrestling entertainment executive, to be head of the Small Business Administration.Democrats focused their fire on Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Price.“Mr. Mnuchin profited off of kicking people out of their homes and then gave false testimony about his bank’s abusive practices,” Mr. Brown said.Democrats said Mr. Price had misled the committee about his investment in a small Australian biotechnology company that could have benefited from legislation that he promoted. Mr. Price bought discounted shares in the company through a private placement after learning about the company from another congressman.“I asked Congressman Price directly if he got an exclusive discount, and he said no,” said Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the senior Democrat on the Finance Committee. “The evidence tells a different story,” Mr. Wyden added. “It looks more and more like Congressman Price got special access to a special deal.”At his confirmation hearing, Mr. Price said, “Everything that I did was ethical, aboveboard, legal and transparent.”Democrats were equally opposed to Mr. Price’s views on health policy. As a member of the House, he has led efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. And as chairman of the Budget Committee, he has proposed major changes to slow the growth of Medicare and Medicaid, which provide coverage to more than 100 million Americans.At the Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday, Democrats cited Mr. Trump’s firing of the acting attorney general, Sally Q. Yates, as a reason to block Mr. Sessions’s nomination. They said he was too close to Mr. Trump to be independent.Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the senior Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, said Ms. Yates had shown “guts” in refusing to defend Mr. Trump’s executive order on immigration.“I have no confidence that Senator Sessions will do that,” Ms. Feinstein said.She and other Democrats invoked images of Mr. Sessions standing side by side with Mr. Trump on the campaign trail, wearing a “Make America Great Again” campaign hat.Republicans showed no signs of breaking ranks as they defended Mr. Sessions, a friend to many of them, and they predicted that he would eventually be confirmed.Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said that “the fact that he’s close to the president” should not surprise anyone. “Is this going to be the test for us all going forward?” Mr. Graham asked.
SEOUL, South Korea —  For decades, squatters have lived inside a dilapidated red brick house on a hillside not far from the royal palace in Seoul.The house’s significance in Korean history is hard to envision. Its windows are cracked and full of spider webs. Doors are boarded up. The leaky, sagging roof is draped with tarps.Yet the home, known as “Dilkusha” — the Hindi word for “Heart’s Delight” that is carved into its foundation — is now being celebrated for its ties to Korea’s uprising against Japanese colonial rule in 1919.Its owner, Albert Wilder Taylor, a gold-mining engineer from Nevada and part-time journalist, broke the news of the revolt and the bloody crackdown by Japanese troops to the outside world.The March 1 Independence Movement, as it is now called, is enshrined in the Constitution of South Korea as a pivotal event in Koreans’ struggle to break free from the Japanese. In preparation for the centenary celebration of the revolt, the home is being turned into a museum.“None of those who lived there, their neighbors or local officials knew the history of the house,” said Stanley Kim, a professor of film and television at Seoil University in Seoul who in 2005 helped rediscover the building’s link to Mr. Taylor. “None of them knew the meaning of the word ‘Dilkusha’ carved in a foundation stone.”Built on a slope of Mount Inwang, which overlooks the royal palace here in the capital, Dilkusha was the most prominent among colonial-style houses owned by Westerners in Seoul a century ago. Mr. Taylor built the home in 1923 and lived with his family there before the Japanese authorities expelled them from Korea in 1942.Mr. Taylor’s ties to the house and his role in the revolution were quickly forgotten. A politician occupied the house for a while, but after he was banished for corruption in 1963, homeless families moved in. As many as 20 households once squeezed inside, the authorities say. A forest of terraced houses, apartments and churches has sprouted up in the neighborhood, obscuring Dilkusha.Kim Jeong-ok, 64, moved into Dilkusha in 2007 after a divorce left her bankrupt and homeless; she took over a two-room space from an older woman who was moving out after 30 years. Although they do not own the house, people who have lived there, some for more than 40 years, sell their space to newcomers when they move out, she said.Like other squatters there, Ms. Kim said she did not know the house’s name or history until television crews and historians began visiting.It took Professor Kim at Seoil University two months to find Dilkusha after a meeting with Mr. Taylor’s son, Bruce, in 2005, about turning his mother’s memoir of her time in Korea into a film (Bruce Taylor died last year).Since the house’s history has been rediscovered, it has begun attracting tourists. The government, which owns the house and plans to designate it as a cultural asset, has said it will help the squatters relocate so renovations can begin.Jennifer Linley Taylor, Mr. Taylor’s granddaughter, was invited to Seoul in March for the uprising’s anniversary, an important national holiday. She donated hundreds of her grandparents’ belongings, including letters and drawings of Koreans by her grandmother, Mary Linley Taylor, to the Seoul Museum of History. The family had already donated Mr. Taylor’s rare photos of Seoul.The museum will display those items and “restore the status Dilkusha deserves as the heritage of Mr. Albert Taylor, who contributed to the birth of our country,” said Lyu Gyeong-gi, a vice mayor of Seoul.A government museum south of Seoul already honors Mr. Taylor as a hero who braved Japanese retaliation to report the uprising and bloody crackdown to the world. Bruce Taylor was made an honorary citizen of Seoul in 2006, and his mother’s book, “Chain of Amber,” was translated and published here in 2014.Mr. Taylor arrived in Korea in 1896. He mined gold, ran an import business and worked as a correspondent for The Associated Press and The Japan Advertiser, a now-defunct American-owned English newspaper in Tokyo.He happened upon his worldwide scoop while visiting his wife at Severance Hospital in Seoul, where she gave birth to their son on Feb. 28, 1919. Unknown to Mr. Taylor, a group of Korean patriots, inspired by President Woodrow Wilson’s speech supporting countries’ right to self-determination, were printing their manifesto in the basement.When he lifted up his newborn son, he found under his wife’s sheets copies of the “Korean Declaration of Independence,” which called for an uprising against Japanese colonial rule the next day. Japanese soldiers had raided the hospital and found the printing press but not copies of the declaration; a nurse had hidden them in Mrs. Taylor’s bed.“To this day, I aver that, as a newly fledged newspaper correspondent, he was more thrilled to find those documents than he was to find his own son and heir,” Mrs. Taylor wrote in her memoir, which was published in English in 1992, 10 years after her death.The revolt lasted for weeks. Thousands of Koreans, many of them Christians, were killed in bloody crackdowns by Japanese soldiers, according to historians.“Outside, on the street all was commotion, an occasional scream, shots, and at other times the sound of hymns being sung; there was one great shout, constantly repeated, ‘Mansei, Mansei,’” Mrs. Taylor wrote in her book, referring to the Korean for ‘Hurray!’Mr. Taylor filed his report and a copy of the declaration through his brother, Bill, who hid them in the hollowed-out heel of his shoe and smuggled them to Tokyo, she wrote. With foreign missionaries and diplomats, Mr. Taylor later traveled south of Seoul and reported that Japanese soldiers were massacring villagers. In the town of Jeam-ri, he wrote, Japanese soldiers herded Koreans suspected as protesters into a church, shot them or stabbed them with bayonets, then set the building and the village on fire.“When we got to the place, which had been a village of about 40 houses, we found only four or five standing, all the rest were smoking ruins,” Mr. Taylor reported in April 1919. “We found a body frightfully burned and twisted lying in a compound and another either of a young man or woman just outside the church compound.”Mr. Taylor died at age 73 in California in 1948, three years after Korea was liberated.In accordance with Mr. Taylor’s will, Mrs. Taylor brought her husband’s ashes to Korea, where he had spent 46 years of his life, and interred them at the Yanghwajin Foreigners’ Cemetery in Seoul. His father, George Alexander Taylor, also a mining engineer, was buried in the same cemetery in 1908.Renovating Dilkusha, a few miles from the cemetery, will help restore the connection between Mr. Taylor and his family and Korean history, Jennifer Taylor said. “Korea was his country,” she said, “his homeland.”
SAN FRANCISCO — One of Silicon Valley’s most successful venture capital firms, which has backed companies like Apple, PayPal and WhatsApp, has added some younger blood to its top management ranks.The firm, Sequoia Capital, has changed up several leadership roles, including naming Roelof Botha to replace Jim Goetz as one of the “stewards” of the firm, a spokesman said Tuesday.Mr. Goetz, 51, is one of the firm’s biggest rainmakers and is perhaps most famous these days for being the only outside investor in WhatsApp by the time the company sold itself to Facebook for $19 billion.In a letter to investors, Mr. Goetz stressed that he was not leaving the firm and would still make investments. Instead, he is stepping back from management responsibilities to help induct a younger generation into the firm’s leadership ranks. It’s a tradition that he said arose from the Sequoia founder Don Valentine’s making way for Doug Leone and Michael Moritz well before retirement age.“I intend to sponsor new investments but I plan to reduce my workload, so that I can start saying yes to some of the other aspects of my life that have been on hold over the past twenty years,” Mr. Goetz wrote in the investor note.Mr. Goetz’s role as a steward will now be filled by Mr. Botha, 43, a former PayPal chief financial officer who led Sequoia’s investments into the likes of YouTube and Instagram. Mr. Botha will serve alongside Mr. Leone and Neil Shen, the head of Sequoia’s China business.Mr. Goetz will also be stepping back as a co-head, with Mr. Botha, of Sequoia’s United States venture business. Replacing him in that role will be Alfred Lin, 44, a former chairman of Zappos, an online clothing retailer, and an investor in Airbnb and Reddit.Sequoia also named Michael Abramson, 39, a new co-head of its United States growth fund, joining Pat Grady, 34.News of the leadership changes was reported earlier by Axios.Here is the text of the letter that Mr. Goetz sent to Sequoia’s investors:
MELBOURNE, Australia — Serena Williams was utterly unaware that a victory on Saturday night would put her back at No. 1. Her coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, did all he could to keep her in the dark.But there was no hiding the other statistical stakes as Williams walked back into Rod Laver Arena, headphones around her neck and game-face in place, to play her older sister Venus Williams in the Australian Open final.The tennis circuit can be an echo chamber where the same questions and themes reverberate from week to week as the locations change, but the protagonists do not.So even if Serena Williams refused to entertain questions during the tournament about the possibility of winning her 23rd Grand Slam singles title and breaking her tie for the Open-era record with Steffi Graf, there was no dodging that number in her own head.Now, after her 6-4, 6-4 victory over her sister, she can celebrate No. 23 instead of fret over it.“I’ve been chasing it for a really long time,” Williams said. “When it got on my radar, I knew I had an opportunity to get there, and I’m here. It’s a great feeling. No better place to do it than Melbourne.”She and her sister made their first visit to Melbourne in 1998. They were teenagers with braces on their teeth and braids in their hair and a clear sense that they were special, but no idea of just how far their talents and confidence would carry them.Much has changed in 19 years. Rod Laver Arena now has a wraparound digital screen at court level and electronic line calling. The court, once green, is now a deep blue. The beads and the braces are long gone, but the sisters’ power tennis remains. And though their father, Richard Williams, in one of the great sports predictions, saw the future clearly when he said the younger, fiercer Serena would turn out to be the better player, perhaps not even he realized how wide the gap would eventually grow.Serena Williams now has 23 major singles titles to her sister’s seven, and has won seven of their nine Grand Slam finals and eight of their last nine matches.Those figures brook no argument. Williams 2.0 has the better operating system when it comes to locating the lines and creating the angles under the greatest pressure. She also has the purer service motion.But Williams 1.0 certainly gave it her all Saturday night, throwing herself into the groundstrokes and displaying more emotion when a return struck the net or a rally failed than she has perhaps ever shown in a major final.“It was palpable how much Venus wanted it,” said Isha Price, the Williamses’ half sister.An all-Williams final is always an emotionally complex affair, which is all the more reason to admire how the older sister has so often handled the disappointments.“That’s my little sister, guys,” Venus Williams said, pointing at Serena during the post-match ceremony.She then spoke to her sister directly. It was quite a riff.“Congratulations, Serena, on No. 23,” Williams said. “I have been there right with you. Some of them I lost right there against you. I guess that’s weird, but it’s been an awesome thing. Your win has always been my win. I think you know that. And all the time I couldn’t be there, wouldn’t be there, didn’t get there, you were there. I’m enormously proud of you. You mean the world to me.”Serena Williams is now within one victory of Margaret Court’s career record of 24 Grand Slam singles titles.“Good on her if she’s good enough to do it,” Court said during the week in Melbourne.Williams has closed in on Court with an unprecedented run of success at an age when most great women’s tennis players of the past had already retired. Graf, for example, was done by 30. But Williams has now won 10 major singles title since turning 30. On Saturday, she became the oldest woman to win a Grand Slam singles title in the Open era, breaking her own record set at Wimbledon last year. Venus, 36, was the oldest Australian Open finalist in the Open era.“There’s no way I would be at 23 without her; there’s no way I would be at 1 without her,” Serena Williams said of her sister in the on-court ceremony. “There’s no way I would have anything without her. She’s my inspiration. She’s the only reason I’m standing here today, and the only reason that the Williams sisters exist. So thank you, Venus, for inspiring me to be the best player I could be and inspiring me to work hard. Every time you won this week, I felt like I’ve got to win, too.”This final was edgy from the start, beginning with four straight breaks of serve and with Serena Williams angrily breaking a racket in just the third game after she lost her footing trying to change direction when one of her sister’s shots struck the net cord.The quality of play fluctuated considerably, but the match ultimately was determined by Serena Williams’s returns. Venus Williams had won over 50 percent of the points on her second serve in her surprise run to the final. She won just 29 percent Saturday.“Serena always expects a tough match against her sister, but I don’t think she expected it to be quite that tough from the start,” Mouratoglou said.At 35, Williams is back on top after playing little in 2016 except for the Grand Slam events and losing the No. 1 ranking to Angelique Kerber, who defeated her in last year’s Australian Open final.Williams looked shocked when it was announced after her victory that she would return to No. 1. Mouratoglou later explained, a tad sheepishly, that he had not answered truthfully when Serena had inquired about it. He said he wanted to avoid putting extra pressure on her at an already fraught moment.“Actually, I think she’s happy I did it now,” he said.The Open could easily have gone awry for Serena Williams. In her return to the circuit earlier this month at a tournament in Auckland, New Zealand, she was upset in her second match by Madison Brengle, making 88 unforced errors on a blustery day.But Williams has often proved that she can click into a higher gear without much match play, and she did not drop a set in seven matches as she won her seventh Australian Open singles title.Venus Williams, seeded 13th here, remains one of the great players of this era, but she has not won a major singles title since she beat Serena to win Wimbledon in 2008. In the intervening years, she received a diagnosis of Sjogren’s syndrome, an autoimmune disorder, that limited her training and contributed to her falling from the top 100 in 2011.But she has learned to manage her health problems and is having a late-career renaissance that might be a much bigger talking point if it were not for her younger sister’s late-career surge. Venus Williams will be at No. 11 in Monday’s WTA rankings.The sisters have become, through experience, adept at compartmentalizing, even if facing each other across the net is still not entirely natural.Their family members struggle with it, too. Their parents, Richard Williams and Oracene Price, did not make the long journey to Melbourne this year, but Isha Price did. And she decided that she preferred to watch the match at her hotel until it was nearly over instead of putting herself through the crucible of watching in person.“Long story short, I don’t think people actually understand the significance of what they see, these two players, who literally for generations have been able to transcend what they do,” Price said. “And it’s very difficult to watch, listen, hear commentary, all of that. We watch tennis on mute. It’s hard. To keep your body in optimal shape to be able to perform at this level consistently over 20 years is an incredible feat. But you still have the conversation where it’s not enough.”It is becoming increasingly difficult to quibble with the record books, however. Serena keeps moving the bar higher, but the poignant part on Saturday night, was that despite all of Venus’s talent and staying power and eloquence, only one Williams sister has managed to win the singles championship at Melbourne Park.
As he warmed up the crowd at Studio 8G on the evening of Jan. 10, Seth Meyers had a special request. Before the cameras rolled, he told those in his audience at “Late Night” that, though they were used to seeing him interview celebrities and newsmakers with whom he often agrees, he wanted them to be respectful of a guest “who does not agree with me on a lot of things.”Soon, he would talk with Kellyanne Conway, who would become the White House counselor to President Donald J. Trump after serving as his campaign manager. Mr. Meyers, the literate, quip-firing comedian and host of NBC’s “Late Night,” had spent the preceding days mapping out his conversation with Ms. Conway, a steadfast and unflappable spokeswoman for Mr. Trump.Then, about an hour before “Late Night” was taped, the world learned that Mr. Trump had received an intelligence briefing on a possible Russian attempt to compromise him, and Mr. Meyers had to decide how to address this breaking news with a key member of Mr. Trump’s team.This was all occurring days before Mr. Trump was sworn in as president; before his White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, gave a combative briefing in which he falsely stated that Mr. Trump drew “the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration”; and before Ms. Conway said on “Meet the Press” that Mr. Spicer was merely offering “alternative facts.” (Even as this sentence was being typed, Mr. Spicer was telling White House reporters, “Sometimes we can disagree with the facts.”)“It’s moving at light speed,” Mr. Meyers said earlier, contemplating a presidency and a news cycle with the potential to make “Late Night” — which starts taping around 6:30 p.m. — obsolete by the time it airs at 12:35 a.m. “Last week’s headlines are a million years ago.”He’d been watching Ms. Conway’s past exchanges with news anchors like Rachel Maddow, Jake Tapper, Chuck Todd and Anderson Cooper, and was trying to gauge how he could be welcoming but not obsequious; funny but not snide; probing but not hostile.But if you’ve followed the trajectory of Mr. Meyers, 43, who made an affable anchor of the “Weekend Update” segment on “Saturday Night Live” and led the 2011 White House Correspondents’ Association Dinner, where Mr. Trump spent the night being pummeled with caustic one-liners, then you know he did not plan to hold his tongue in Ms. Conway’s presence.“As important as it is for her to say what she believes to be true, it’s just as important for me to jump in when I feel the opposite to be true,” Mr. Meyers said.It’s a challenge that Mr. Meyers and his late-night colleagues will continue to confront throughout the Trump presidency. Over a haphazard and unpredictable presidential campaign that Mr. Trump dominated, they served a steady diet of acidic commentary on his candidacy; hosts like Samantha Bee, Stephen Colbert, Trevor Noah and John Oliver made their opposition to him an intrinsic part of their shows. (An exception was Jimmy Fallon at NBC’s “The Tonight Show,” who was widely criticized in September for an interview with Mr. Trump that was perceived as too cozy.)While no amount of jokes or sketches was able to prevent Mr. Trump from winning the election, these programs have galvanized viewers who crave the satirical dissent that Mr. Meyers provides. Nearly three years into his tenure at “Late Night,” he has found his voice, and with it, greater resonance.He evolved a hyper-topical style of comedy that asks viewers to be as engaged in current events as he is — epitomized by his signature segment, “A Closer Look,” which can spend 10 minutes or more unpacking a given subject — and which, let’s face it, has grown no fonder of Mr. Trump.Ms. Conway’s visit was a hopeful sign to Mr. Meyers that he could still have cordial relations with the new administration if he conducted the interview thoughtfully. (“There’s also the fear that it goes the other way, and then that’s not the case,” he said.)Still, there’s an existential air of uncertainty that hangs over “Late Night,” and all of late night, now that Mr. Trump has assumed office. Can Mr. Meyers continue to lay into the president without attracting his angry tweets (or worse reprisals)? Is that what his viewers will want in the months to come?“The bigger reshuffling of the deck for us, potentially, is what will the audience’s appetite for it be, moving forward?” Mr. Meyers said. “Because everything up to this point was speculative, and now it’s reality. Will it go from the fun of dating to, now, oh my God, we’re married?”And if Mr. Trump — who clearly pays attention to how TV portrays him — really does follow through on the most authoritarian, anti-media rumblings he expressed as a candidate, is there anything that comic commentary can really do to challenge it?“We fool ourselves if we think it does everything,” said David Remnick, the editor of The New Yorker and an occasional “Late Night” guest.“‘A Hard Rain’s A-Gonna Fall’ did not end the nuclear arms race,” Mr. Remnick said. “Kendrick Lamar has not ended racism in America, and Seth Meyers is not going to turn Donald Trump into a sincere, fair-minded liberal. This is not going to happen.”But when it comes to highlighting “the vanities and almost eerie distraction of Trump’s consciousness,” Mr. Remnick said, “satire brought that out a lot better than news stories.”Earlier on the afternoon of our interview, Mr. Meyers and his writing staff had been huddled in his eighth-floor office at 30 Rockefeller Plaza, furnished with sports memorabilia, comic-book art and video game consoles, to pore over a 30-page draft of the “Closer Look” segment he would deliver that night.The comic tirade on Mr. Trump’s maladroit presidential transition — riffing on his praise for Vladimir Putin, his Twitter feud with Arnold Schwarzenegger and Meryl Streep’s criticism of him at the Golden Globes, among many other subjects — was one of three that Mr. Meyers would deliver in a four-show week.Getting this oversize script to hold an audience’s attention meant excising some jokes about cabinet nominees like Steve Mnuchin, and adding jokes, like the sound of tiny knuckles cracking.The dense and lengthy “A Closer Look” has become one of Mr. Meyers’s hallmarks. In a 10-minute segment on Monday, he took on Mr. Trump’s inaugural address, his fixation on turnout and Mr. Spicer’s declaration that it was seen by “the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration, period.”“Period?” Mr. Meyers said in disbelief. “I think you mean double question marks.”That explanatory, can-you-believe-this structure, Mr. Meyers said earlier this month, was simply a means to an end. “It’s ‘This happened, here’s a joke; this happened, here’s a joke,’” he said. “But the ‘This happened’ part is important to us.”If the segment, with its mission of rooting out falsehoods and making sense of unfathomable news, has focused so often on Mr. Trump, Mr. Meyers said, this was unavoidable. “He gave us so much content that we had to turn into a content machine in order to get through it all,” he said.This approach has helped “Late Night,” which was drawing more than 1.6 million viewers at the end of last year, stand out in a crowded field of competitors, and has earned Mr. Meyers praise from viewers, critics and his fellow hosts.Though he is not known for the madcap viral videos that Mr. Fallon and James Corden have mastered, and is not a gregarious showman in the manner of David Letterman or Mr. Colbert, Mr. Meyers has a sincere interest in news and a frustration with hypocrisy that is earned honestly — what Mr. Remnick called a “good-natured political fury that’s infusing the show.”Mr. Corden, of CBS’s “The Late Late Show” (which runs neck-and-neck with “Late Night” in the ratings race), said Mr. Meyers had been smart to build a program that contrasts with the carousing style of his popular lead-in, Mr. Fallon’s “The Tonight Show.”At “Late Night,” Mr. Corden said, “they tried a few different lanes — maybe the show should be this, maybe the show should be that.”“As soon as you go, ‘No, this is the show I want to make, and this is what I’d like to say,’ it’s a brilliant show to watch,” he added.Mr. Noah, the host of “The Daily Show” on Comedy Central, said that any contemporary late-night show with a topical focus owed some creative debt to his predecessor, Jon Stewart.“The truth is, everybody is emulating and trying to evolve their own version of what was inspired by Jon,” Mr. Noah said. “If everyone is doing it, that’s when you seek ways to differentiate yourself, and that pushes you closer to who you should be.”He hailed Mr. Meyers for “how passionate he’s become about everything that is happening in the country, beyond what everyone assumes a late-night show should be talking about.”When Mr. Meyers took over “Late Night” in February 2014, it wasn’t clear his show would turn out this way. He had his time at “Weekend Update,” where, he said, he had possessed “more a comic point of view than a worldview”; two gigs as host of the ESPY Awards; and the White House Correspondents’ Dinner, where he said, “Donald Trump has been saying he’ll run for president as a Republican, which is surprising, as I just assumed he was running as a joke.”In person, Mr. Meyers can be diplomatic when talking about others but self-deprecating when the subject turns to him.Coming into “Late Night,” he said, “I don’t think I had any sense of the grand architecture of the show, probably to the detriment of the show.”“I, at no point, was capable of gathering the writing staff or anyone else and saying, ‘Here is the vision of what this will be,’” he said.To the extent that Mr. Meyers tried to do a more all-around show, and avoided the qualities for which people already knew him, he acknowledges this was a mistake.“I don’t know why, at age 40, I thought, ‘Oh! I’m a jack-of-all-trades,’” Mr. Meyers said with a laugh. “If anything, ‘S.N.L.’ already told me I wasn’t. I started as a cast member, and they basically wore me down to a guy with a tie who sat behind a desk.”For him, a big breakthrough was the realization, about a year and a half into the “Late Night” gig, that he could deliver his opening monologue at his desk, à la “Weekend Update,” instead of in a stand-up style, which never felt right to him.Or, as Mr. Meyers imagined his audience’s response: “Oh, thank goodness, this nice man can now put his hands on paper and a pencil, as opposed to flapping around, trying to land some invisible plane.”Mike Shoemaker, the veteran “S.N.L.” producer who is now Mr. Meyers’s producer on “Late Night,” said he encouraged the host to rely more on his storytelling skills.“When we started, I wanted him to tell a story every day,” Mr. Shoemaker said. “Until finally, he was like” — here Mr. Shoemaker began to gasp exaggeratedly — “‘I can’t think of stories every day! Not enough things happen in my life!’”As “A Closer Look” became a more frequent feature in the ensuing months, Mr. Shoemaker said it essentially filled that void. “It really is how Seth feels about things,” he said. “It’s like telling those stories, except that the story is about what’s going on in the world.”That includes the sobering monologue Mr. Meyers delivered in his Nov. 9 broadcast, where he acknowledged he had been wrong about Mr. Trump’s chances of winning and reckoned with how he, a husband and father of an 8-month-old son at the time, was dealing with his disappointment.“I am hopeful for President Trump,” Mr. Meyers said in the monologue, “because hope is always the best possible path to take.”Reflecting on the process that led to that monologue, Mr. Meyers said: “For a lot of reasons, I was tossing and turning that night. But one of them was, I’m going to have to put this experience into words.”He said he owed his audience an explanation, “since I’d been vocal about how I felt for the 18 months leading up to it.”“It’s a lot easier for one person to say, ‘I got this wrong, I made the mistake,’ than it is for an entire institution,” he added.Though he has never been told by NBC to lay off Mr. Trump, nor been on the receiving end of his angry tweets, as “Saturday Night Live” has, Mr. Meyers said he had concerns about how Mr. Trump would govern. “If he completely restricted the press, I don’t know how many of his followers would care,” he said. “That’s pretty scary.”On the other hand, Mr. Meyers said, “He’s always one compliment away from changing his mind.”A similar uncertainty pervaded Mr. Meyers’s preparations to interview Ms. Conway. If he didn’t hold her feet to the fire, would he face the kind of backlash directed at Mr. Fallon for his interview with Mr. Trump?Mr. Meyers spoke only of himself. “It’s an expectation for my show, and it’s an expectation that we place on ourselves,” he said.But he added that not every late-night program had to be adversarial. “I’m aware that I’m probably doing things that are making people want to watch my show less,” he said. “I don’t know if it’s great for the country if we all, collectively, do stuff that makes everybody want to watch our shows less.”Over the 13-minute interview, Mr. Meyers was cordial to Ms. Conway, congratulating her on Mr. Trump’s victory. He also asked her directly about “allegations that the Russian government has compromising information” on Mr. Trump; Ms. Conway responded: “Well, guess what hasn’t happened, Seth? Nobody has sourced it,” adding that “nothing’s been confirmed.”As he parleyed with Ms. Conway, Mr. Meyers was able to score a few points. When Ms. Conway discussed the delayed hearings for some of Mr. Trump’s cabinet nominees, asking, “Why are we playing politics?,” he answered, “Well, it’s politics.” When Mr. Meyers said he tipped his cap to Ms. Conway for her accessibility, she asked if he would do that with an actual “Make America Great Again” cap.“I’ll tip an imaginary hat,” he said. “But you can’t see what it imaginary says.”The response to the interview, in the studio, among viewers and in the news media, was largely positive, though Mr. Meyers chided himself the next day for not being tougher on some of Ms. Conway’s claims. “Anytime someone from team Trump talks about delegitimizing a president, you wish you brought up his birth-certificate nonsense,” he said.Mr. Meyers said he hadn’t really been reading his online praise or criticism. He had other ways of gauging that the conversation had been successful, though they also made the job of being a late-night host sound ever so slightly less glamorous.“I do so many shows in any given year where none of my friends reach out to say, ‘Good job,’” he said, chuckling at himself. “So even when you wake up with a few emails or texts, you have a sense that it was well received, and that’s a really nice feeling.”Though Mr. Meyers is an avid Twitter user, he said he was not looking at the real-time response to his interview, either. “Mostly because I’m asleep so much earlier than when the show airs,” he said.
MOGADISHU, Somalia — A suicide bomber from the Islamist militant group Shabab rammed a vehicle into a Kenyan military base in southern Somalia on Friday morning, setting off a ferocious firefight that killed dozens of people.Representatives of the Shabab and of the Kenyan Defense Ministry each claimed that they had inflicted heavy losses on the other side. It was not possible to confirm immediately whether either side’s account was accurate.The Kenyan military has played down Shabab attacks in the past, including an assault last January that Somalia’s president estimated killed at least 180 Kenyan soldiers near the village of El-Adde. In the attack on Friday, the Shabab claimed to have killed 57 Kenyan soldiers, which would make the latest assault one of the deadliest in recent memory.The Lower Juba region of Somalia, where the attack occurred, is not easily accessible, unlike the capital, Mogadishu, where the Shabab carried out attacks just this week.Somalia, which has been in varying states of violent chaos since a longtime dictator was overthrown in 1991, is the site of a clandestine American-backed war involving Special Operations troops, airstrikes, private contractors and African allies. The Obama administration expanded the legal scope of the military operation Congress authorized against Al Qaeda after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, even though the Shabab did not exist at the time.The African Union runs a peacekeeping mission in Somalia, under the auspices of the United Nations, and the base that was attacked, in the town of Kolbio, was under the command of that mission.Abdiaziz Abu Musab, a spokesman for the Shabab, said in a statement: “Our fighters overran the base and confiscated military vehicles and equipments during the raid. We have counted the deaths of 57 Kenyan soldiers.”In a phone interview, Joe Kibet, a spokesman for the African Union mission, dismissed the Shabab claims as propaganda but said that the mission was “still awaiting information” about the death toll, because communications were down.Later, however, Lt. Col. P. M. Njuguna, a spokesman for the Kenyan military, disputed that account, saying that his country’s soldiers had “repulsed the terrorists, killing scores.” He dismissed the Shabab’s account, adding, “It is important to note that the information being peddled by terrorists on social media is false and part of their propaganda.”Residents of Kolbio described hearing two big explosions, followed by heavy gunfire, as hundreds of Shabab militants attacked the base, around 5 a.m.The town’s mayor, Mohamed Tohyare Nuh, was among the people killed, according to residents interviewed by VOA Somali, the Somali-language service of Voice of America.Cabdinaasir Abdi, a resident of Kolbio, described “a heavy attack” and “hundreds of Shabab fighters entering the African Union base after huge explosions and gunfire.”The attack on Friday was reportedly planned in the town of Badhaadhe, where Kenyan soldiers conducted a large-scale operation just a few days ago. Social media accounts affiliated with the Shabab reported that the militants who carried out the attack were from a brigade that was also behind the attack near El-Adde last January.
Q. Using Photoshop on the computer, how can I get a good black-and-white image out of a digital color photo? Converting it to grayscale takes out the color, but it doesn’t look like a real black-and-white picture.A. For the last 10 years or so, Adobe Photoshop has included a Black and White Adjustment Layer tool, which gives you much more command over the depth and richness of monochromatic photographs than you get by simply stripping out the colors in a grayscale conversion. The Black and White Adjustment Layer feature has been around since at least Adobe Photoshop CS3 in 2007, so if your software is less than a decade old, you should be able to use the tool.Steps will vary based on the version of Adobe Photoshop you have. In the CS6 edition of the program, one way to get there is to open a picture file, go to the Layer menu, choose New Adjustment Layer and then Black & White. A panel of sliders appears and you can use these (as well as styles from the preset menu) to fine-tune the appearance of the black-and-white image.Adobe’s site has short video tutorials and instructions demonstrating the technique, which is used by some professional photographers, among other methods for working in monochrome. (Adobe’s site also has a guide for converting color photos to black-and-white using the Adobe Photoshop Elements software for home users.)Using dedicated add-on software for Adobe Photoshop is another way to convert your color snapshots into moody black-and-white images. Some of these plug-ins cost money and some may not work with your version of the program, but there are plenty to choose from online.Google’s Nik Collection of seven different specialty plug-ins is one set to consider. The software is free and works with Adobe Photoshop versions CS4 through CC 2015 for Windows and Mac systems. It runs on several versions of Adobe Photoshop Elements, Adobe Lightroom and Apple’s discontinued Aperture program, too.The Silver Efex Pro plug-in is part of the collection and includes tools to emulate the look of certain film types — along with plenty of other adjustment controls to unleash your inner Ansel Adams or Berenice Abbott.
This interview with Sheryl Palmer, C.E.O. of the home-building company Taylor Morrison, has been edited for space and clarity.Q. What were your early years like?A. I was born in L.A. but grew up moving a lot, and usually it was because of my mom. She was on the design side of the clothing industry, and my dad was on the retail side.It taught me to be flexible, because when you’re at that age, you have to reinvent yourself, to be social and to make friends, in different parts of the country. It really taught me about understanding that there are all kinds of people, learning to get along, and making the best out of most situations.I wanted to work at a young age and make my own money. Because my mom was a designer, we never got to go shopping because she always brought home clothes. And so, as a normal teenager, you don’t want to do that. You want to get your own clothes and look like everybody else.At 15, I got a job at McDonald’s, and worked there through high school and college. I went into marketing, doing a lot of community functions. When I was 20, I became McDonald’s marketing manager for San Diego.Every 16-year-old should have to work at McDonald’s, because you really do learn how to work. You have to pull back the equipment and sweep behind. There are no shortcuts. You had to do it right because it was such a part of their brand. There were a lot of life lessons in that job.What were some early leadership lessons for you?I was asked to be the sales manager at Sun City West in Phoenix, and I was responsible for about two dozen sales associates who were on average about 25 years older than me. I knew nothing, and I was surrounded by all these experts, but I needed to be a resource.So what did you do?It’s about building relationships. It doesn’t matter what the task is, it still comes down to people first. If I owned the responsibility for building a relationship with them, and communicated with them in a way they liked, it was amazing. I also respected their knowledge, and had the humility to know what I didn’t know and not pretend I did.Other lessons?There are a number of attributes that form leaders, including the courage to try new things. It’s also about being accessible, approachable and authentic. This role is what I do, but it’s not who I am, and I stay grounded with that.I started an internal video blog, “Shoes Off with Sheryl.” I named it that because I hate shoes. If I’m in a meeting, my shoes are probably off under the table. As silly as that sounds, that’s who I am, and the day that I have to change who I am to do my job will be the day I really don’t want to do it anymore. I’ve watched so many people lose sight of their personal reality because they felt they had to act or look a certain part.This isn’t a dress rehearsal. We get one shot at this, and I really do live that way. I had a really tough medical situation about six years ago. I had a brain tumor. So you don’t know what tomorrow will bring.You have to ask yourself, if you really had only 10 days to live, would you be doing what you’re doing? We make choices, and I choose to be happy, and I think that resonates through the organization.Any feedback you’ve received over the years about your management style?All the time. I’m really curious, and so I ask a lot of questions. I never go into people’s business because I don’t trust them, but because I want to understand and grow. Sometimes I can be too curious. There’s always one more question. “Sheryl always has one more question,” people say.And so I’ve had to find the right parameters and make sure they know I’m available but I’m not in their way.How do you hire?If it’s a senior executive, I almost always do it in a restaurant because it’s the one time you really can understand the way people interact with others. It gives me so much insight, and I’ve made some really good decisions with folks with impressive résumés who just didn’t know how to do that. Their natural tendencies might not have been to be polite.I’ll ask about how they define success, personally and professionally. Understanding somebody’s humility really speaks volumes about their leadership. I’m looking for a blend of leadership and business acumen, and that comes out in very real ways when you’re talking to somebody about how they live their life, their family, the things they’ve accomplished, the things they do outside of work and what really gives them energy and pride.I also look for intellectual curiosity. That really helps me understand how people solve problems and how they approach new circumstances. One question I ask is about their most successful, unexpected events. What were the wins that you really didn’t expect, and how did you achieve those? You start learning about their curiosity, their leadership and how they took a business problem and created an unexpected win, usually through some team dynamic.I also ask people what skill they had in their leadership toolbox that they wish they had more of. For me, if I ever stop learning, I need to stop working.What career and life advice do you give to new college grads?I’ve seen a change in this generation, and there is an anxiousness to just do it all by tomorrow. If I had decided what success was for me at 21 or 22, I would have missed so much opportunity. So keep an open mind because it’s hard to know when you’re 22.What you think might give you that passion and energy might not be it. So keep a really open mind and be flexible, be nimble. Find what gives you the energy and then go after it with a vengeance, because I do believe that you get one shot at it.
LOS ANGELES — Once known as Sid the Kid, Pittsburgh Penguins center Sidney Crosby now takes the ice with a reputation simply as “the man.”Crosby, 29, continues to shine the brightest in a hockey skyline illuminated by young players like Edmonton’s Connor McDavid, Toronto’s Auston Matthews and Winnipeg’s Patrik Laine, who will be joining Crosby at Sunday’s N.H.L. All-Star Game here.On Friday night, Crosby, six months after winning his second Stanley Cup with the Penguins, was one of the six active players chosen for the N.H.L.’s 100 greatest players as part of the league’s centennial celebration.“He’s the best player in the game; he’s earned that mantle,” said the Hall of Famer Wayne Gretzky, who will coach Crosby’s Metropolitan Division team in the All-Star Game. The N.H.L. asked Gretzky to take over as the coach after John Tortorella withdrew from the assignment to care for an ailing family pet.Gretzky, now an executive with the Edmonton Oilers, said that McDavid, 20, was chasing Crosby for that title.“Until somebody knocks him off the castle, that’s the way it’s going to be,” Gretzky said of Crosby. “He won two Stanley Cups and two gold medals, and he’s handled pressure and handled everything with grace and dignity, and he deserves all the accolades he’s getting.”McDavid — who became a Penguins fan because of Crosby and beamed five years ago when Crosby told reporters that a 15-year-old McDavid reminded him of himself — has moved past fandom to mutual respect“He’s the best player in the world, and you can learn off of the things he does. But at the end of the day, I think my game is a little bit different,” McDavid said by telephone this month, adding that Crosby played more of a power game while he had to rely on speed and other ways to be effective.The arrival of stars like McDavid, Matthews, 19, and Laine, 18, seems to have pushed Crosby even harder to improve and reassert himself as the pre-eminent player.“To get to this level and be at the top of your game, there’s always a ton of motivation,” Crosby said. “It’s good to see young players having success, and I’m sure it’s pushing everyone to be better, too.”Crosby, the captain of the Metropolitan Division team for the All-Star three-on-three tournament, has not played in an All-Star Game since 2007, his second year in the league. It was the only time he competed in the midseason exhibition — injuries or Olympic participation has prevented him from returning until now.After missing the first six games of the season because of a concussion, he is second in the league in points, behind McDavid, with 55, and first in goals, with 28, on pace for a career high and his second Maurice Richard Trophy as the league’s top goal scorer. He is doing so with his relatively unknown linemates, Conor Sheary and Bryan Rust.Crosby leads the league in points per game, and he is fifth on the career list in that category behind Gretzky, Mario Lemieux, Bobby Orr and Mike Bossy.In addition to his scoring prowess, Crosby saved the Penguins franchise, said Lemieux, the former Penguins star who is now a part owner of the team. The Penguins were in financial peril in the late 1990s, leading Lemieux to defer salary to purchase an ownership stake in the team and keep it in Pittsburgh.By 2004, the Penguins were last in attendance, but Crosby’s arrival in 2005 revived interest. With Crosby as their captain, they went to the finals in 2008, won the Stanley Cup in 2009 and opened a new arena in 2010.Lemieux, who retired in 2006, has been Crosby’s teammate, his boss and, early in Crosby’s career, his roommate. Lemieux spoke enthusiastically of Crosby on Friday night.“Just like Wayne was when he played, he’s the hardest-working guy out there.” Lemieux said. “Whether it’s at practice or a three-on-three game, he wants to win, he wants to be the best.“I think his skating ability is second to none. His lower-body strength is unbelievable. If he goes one-on-one in the corner, he’s able to come out and make a play. His passing ability is probably the best in the league, and his vision, of course, is also one of the best.”Crosby has lost a substantial portion of his career to injury, primarily concussions. He has missed more than 200 games, the equivalent of about two and a half seasons. Crosby has remained relatively healthy since 2012.But he had a tepid start to last season, with just 9 points in his first 18 games. A coaching change and personnel moves rejuvenated him, and his team, offensively. After Mike Sullivan took over behind the bench, Crosby led the league in scoring. That propelled the Penguins into the playoffs, where they captured the Stanley Cup. Crosby earned his first Conn Smythe Trophy as the postseason’s most valuable player.Sullivan, who has spent over a quarter-century in the N.H.L., said he had never seen a star with Crosby’s strong work habits and drive to be the best. He also praised Crosby’s leadership on the team and his rapport with the coaching staff.“I think what made him our best player was his complete game,” Sullivan said. “He plays a 200-foot game. He plays away from the puck every bit as hard as he plays with the puck. We rely on him at both ends of the rink.“He always plays against the other team’s top defense pair and gets the most attention from a checking standpoint. He plays through all of that, game in and game out, series in and series out.”Among his contemporaries, Crosby will forever be linked with the Washington Capitals’ Alex Ovechkin, who joined him Saturday among the 100 greatest players. Ovechkin reached 1,000 career points earlier this season, but he took 880 games to do so. Crosby is on pace to reach that milestone shortly — in about 125 fewer career games.“We started together,” Ovechkin said. “My first year in the league was his first year in the league. We both had success. We’re both top-100 players in the league. It’s amazing.”Teemu Selanne, another prolific scorer who had a record 73 goals as a rookie in 1992-93 and played until age 44, said he was even more impressed with Crosby’s stateliness than with his stardom.“He wants to be a role model for the younger players and be a spokesperson for the N.H.L.,” Selanne said. “He’s like a new version of Wayne. On the ice, we all know he good he is. He’s having a great year. The league needs guys like Crosby. He’s a pleasure to watch, and very gentlemanly. Hockey’s very lucky to have him.”
THE final deadline for enrolling in health insurance for 2017 under the Affordable Care Act is on Tuesday. But with so much turmoil and uncertainty surrounding the law’s future, should consumers bother to shop for coverage?Yes, say policy experts and consumer advocates. Health plans — and subsidies to help low-income consumers pay for premiums — are in place for this year. Healthcare.gov and the state-based insurance marketplaces are open for business, for consumers who do not have job-based coverage and are seeking individual policies.“They absolutely should sign up,” said Sabrina Corlette, a research professor at Georgetown’s Center on Health Insurance Reforms. Unless something drastic happens, she said, consumers should have coverage and, for those who qualify, help with premiums through the end of the year.The outlook after that is murky, to say the least. President Trump and the Republican-controlled Congress are working to dismantle former President Barack Obama’s signature health law, known as Obamacare. But “repealing and replacing” the law, which has expanded health insurance to an estimated 20 million people through individual marketplace plans and the expansion of state Medicaid programs, is complicated. Several proposals have been floated, but it’s not yet clear which, if any, will prevail. And Congress has yet to confirm Tom Price, Mr. Trump’s nominee to lead the Department of Health and Human Services, which oversees Healthcare.gov.Advertisements for the enrollment deadline were to have run over the next few days, but the Trump administration pulled them back, which presumably could dampen the number of people who take advantage of the option.While Republican lawmakers want to do away with the Affordable Care Act, doing so without offering an alternative for people covered under the law is politically perilous. So there is likely to be some sort of transition period from the current system to its successor — whatever that may be.“A key question will be how to move from the Affordable Care Act to a new system without threatening coverage for people who have already gotten it,” said Larry Levitt, a senior vice president at the Kaiser Family Foundation, a health research group.All that will play out in the coming months. But currently, coverage is available. “If people need coverage now, they should get it,” Karen Pollitz, a senior fellow with the foundation, said.Some consumers have complained that premiums and out-of-pocket costs for marketplace plans are high, and doctor choices are limited. Still, the federal government estimates that nearly three-quarters of marketplace customers can find plans for less than $75 a month. And most marketplace shoppers qualify for financial help with their premiums.“It’s a good idea to take advantage of the opportunity to enroll now,” said Elizabeth Hagan, senior policy analyst with Families USA, an advocacy group.Ms. Hagan urged consumers to seek help from those known as health care navigators, who are available by phone and in person to help consumers sort through options. Daniel Bouton, program director at the Community Council of Greater Dallas, which offers health care enrollment assistance, said that demand for help remained high and that consumers had been booking appointments for throughout the weekend, including Sunday. (To find assistance locally, you can visit Healthcare.gov and click on “Find local help.”)Here are some questions and answers about 2017 coverage under the Affordable Care Act:If I sign up by Tuesday, when will my coverage begin?Coverage will begin March 1.What if I don’t sign up by Jan. 31?You can’t enroll in marketplace coverage or change plans after the deadline, unless you have a special circumstance, like losing job-based coverage, marrying or having a child.Is there any chance that marketplace health coverage could be disrupted this year?One outside possibility that health care experts are closely watching comes from a lawsuit known as House v. Burwell. The suit, filed by Republican members of the House of Representatives in 2014, challenges federal payments made to insurers to help low-income people pay for health coverage under the Affordable Care Act. Under certain situations, the suit could lead to a dismantling of the “cost sharing” payments, causing insurers to pull back from marketplace coverage this year. The suit is delayed until Feb. 21.
SAN FRANCISCO — On Friday morning, Silicon Valley was largely ambivalent about President Trump. The software programmers, marketing experts and chief executives might not have voted for him, but they were hopeful about finding common ground with the new administration.By Saturday night, much of that optimism had yielded to anger and determination.Mr. Trump’s executive order late on Friday temporarily blocked all refugees while also denying entry to citizens of Iran, Iraq and five other predominantly Muslim countries. The directives struck at the heart of Silicon Valley’s cherished values, its fabled history and, not least, its embrace-the-world approach to customers. Two worldviews collided: the mantra of globalization that underpins the advance of technology and the nationalistic agenda of the new administration.In response, a significant part of the tech community went to the barricades.Netflix’s chief executive, Reed Hastings, wrote on Facebook that Mr. Trump’s actions “are so un-American it pains us all” and that “it is time to link arms together to protect American values of freedom and opportunity.”Brian Chesky, the chief executive of Airbnb, made the same point. “We must stand with those who are affected,” he wrote on Twitter.Sergey Brin, a Google founder who immigrated from the Soviet Union when he was 6, seemed to take that suggestion literally, attending an impromptu protest on Saturday evening at San Francisco International Airport. When some of the demonstrators realized that the 10th-richest man in America was with them, they asked for selfies. He good-naturedly obliged.“I’m here because I'm a refugee,” Mr. Brin said, according to a Twitter post by the Forbes writer Ryan Mac.The tech companies’ reaction was more forceful than that of other industries. Just about everyone in Silicon Valley came from somewhere else or is a son or daughter of someone who did or is married to someone who did.That list starts with the most famous Silicon Valley citizen of all: Steve Jobs, the Apple co-founder, whose biological father immigrated from Syria in 1954. Mr. Trump’s order proclaimed that “the entry of nationals of Syria as refugees is detrimental to the interests of the United States” and would be suspended indefinitely.Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, said that his great-grandparents had come from Germany, Austria and Poland and that the parents of his wife, Priscilla Chan, were refugees from China and Vietnam.“Like many of you, I'm concerned about the impact of the recent executive orders signed by President Trump,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote on Facebook on Friday.Even some of those working closely with the Trump administration were critical. Elon Musk, the chief executive of Tesla and SpaceX, who sits on two of Mr. Trump’s advisory committees, wrote on Twitter that the ban was “not the best way to address the country’s challenges.” Mr. Musk was born in South Africa.Aaron Levie, chief executive of the data storage company Box, wrote on Twitter that “on every level — moral, humanitarian, economic, logical, etc. — this ban is wrong and is completely antithetical to the principles of America.”Over all, Mr. Levie said in an interview, “there was a pretty resounding response from the tech industry showing how unacceptable this is.”Beyond family heritage and employment, he noted, Silicon Valley cares about immigration because its companies strive to operate everywhere in the world.“Almost every company’s products — Google, Apple, Airbnb — has a global customer base,” Mr. Levie said. “These policy decisions have real implications to our partners, our customers, our competitors.”The Trump administration is little more than a week old, but its relationship with Silicon Valley is already complicated. The tech industry did not like Mr. Trump the presidential candidate, despite his embrace of Twitter, and he returned the sentiment with caustic posts on the platform. Stephen K. Bannon, his chief strategist, said in 2015 that “two-thirds or three-quarters of the C.E.O.s in Silicon Valley are from South Asia or from Asia,” an incorrect statement that many in Silicon Valley perceived as racist.Yet a much-promoted December meeting between the incoming administration and numerous tech chieftains was decidedly upbeat. “We’re going to be there for you,” Mr. Trump promised to a room that included the leaders of Apple, Microsoft and Amazon.By early last week, the companies sensed trouble.Murtadha al-Tameemi, 24, an Iraqi-born software engineer at Facebook, was told by a company lawyer on Tuesday that he needed to cut short a visit to Canada and return to the United States. The company feared that he would not be readmitted to the country because the president was expected to sign an executive order that would keep him out.“It may be my naïveté about how politics and industries interact, but I don’t interpret the tech community’s opposition to the president as a political stance,” Mr. Tameemi said. “It seemed more like a matter of values and a matter that impacts them.”The larger tech companies tended to be less forceful in their reactions to the executive order than the smaller ones. Google said it was “concerned.” Apple said, “It is not a policy we support.” Amazon said only that it was committed to diversity. Oracle did not respond to requests for comment.On the other hand, Microsoft became more forceful as the weekend went on. On Saturday, its executives talked mostly about the virtues of immigration. On Sunday night, the company issued a statement calling the executive order “misguided and a fundamental step backwards” and said it would create “collateral damage to the country’s reputation and values.”Microsoft was not the only company to become bolder in a few hours. Around 10 a.m. on Saturday, Mr. Chesky of Airbnb posted a vague message on Twitter saying “open doors bring all of US together.” By 6 p.m., he was advocating open protest. Early Sunday morning, he wrote a memo to employees warning that Mr. Trump’s new policy was “a direct obstacle to our mission.”It was a long, dizzying day for an industry that is struggling to find its footing under the new president. “It feels like the air itself has changed, like when a storm comes,” said Shervin Pishevar, a founder of Sherpa Capital and Hyperloop One.Even before the executive order, pressure had been building on companies to speak out against measures being endorsed by Mr. Trump. Some of that impetus came from employees, and some from activists.Engineers and product managers at several tech companies spoke to The New York Times on the condition of anonymity. They have signed nondisclosure agreements at their companies and are generally not authorized to speak to the news media.At Twitter, a number of workers felt frustrated with the disconnect between their company’s product — a platform for free speech — and the extent to which Mr. Trump has used it to attack those who question him and proclaim outright falsehoods to the American public. On Saturday, Jack Dorsey, Twitter’s chief executive, posted and reposted numerous messages denouncing the travel ban.At Facebook, employees felt a similar sense of discord. Some complained about how long it took Mr. Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer, to speak out. Others were upset at the continued presence of Peter Thiel, a venture capitalist and a longtime confidant of Mr. Zuckerberg’s, as a director on Facebook’s board. Mr. Thiel was a donor to Mr. Trump's campaign and has since become an adviser, and he issued a statement on Saturday evening that reaffirmed his support for the president.Uber is under one of the brightest spotlights. Travis Kalanick, its chief executive, is part of Mr. Trump’s economic advisory team.That has made Uber a target of protesters, some of whom shut down access to its headquarters on Inauguration Day.In an email to employees on Saturday titled “Standing up for what’s right,” Mr. Kalanick stressed the importance of pushing for change by working to have a seat at the table and discussing any differences. He said he would be seeing Mr. Trump on Friday.As protesters at Kennedy International Airport in New York multiplied on Saturday night, cabdrivers — largely immigrants — began a one-hour work stoppage at the airport as a form of protest against the executive order.Uber did not follow suit. Instead, it posted on Twitter that it was suspending surge pricing at Kennedy Airport. That prompted accusations that it was trying to break the strike, which the company awkwardly denied in another Twitter post.On Sunday morning, its competitor Lyft said it was donating $1 million to the American Civil Liberties Union over the next four years “to defend our Constitution.” On Sunday afternoon, Uber sharpened its criticism of the ban, calling it “wrong and unjust.”Sam Altman, who runs Y Combinator, Silicon Valley’s most prominent start-up incubator, said things were changing so fast that it was hard to predict what was going to happen.“After the election, a lot of people here said give Trump a chance in good faith, and after he started, a lot of people said give him a chance in good faith,” Mr. Altman said. “Now they are looking at his policies and saying he is a risk to the republic. Saturday was a good beginning, and I think there is more to come.”Mr. Altman spoke as he was arriving at the airport in San Francisco on Saturday at 10:30 p.m. The protest was continuing, and he intended to join.
Simon Spurr stood on his tippy toes to fetch a shoe box from a wardrobe in his West Village apartment. There were 20 dark blue boxes there in an otherwise clutter-free aerie given over to Modernist furniture, coffee table books and art. As he cracked open the box, the smell of fresh Italian leather filled the room.“Beautiful,” Mr. Spurr said, as he caressed the handmade, black-and-white horsehair Chelsea boot that he spent the last year perfecting. This $1,195 boot is not only an example from the first run of a luxury footwear brand, March NYC, that Mr. Spurr is unveiling this week, but it also reflects the 43-year-old’s return to the fashion spotlight.Five years ago, Mr. Spurr was an ascendant star in the city’s fashion firmament. Alongside Patrick Ervell, Billy Reid and Thom Browne, he was a promising young designer in a rapidly expanding men’s wear market. Handsome and with a plummy English accent, Mr. Spurr embodied a sort of fine tailored Savile Row-meets-rock ’n’ roll swagger that bewitched American men’s wear.But his progress ended suddenly in 2012, when Mr. Spurr shocked the fashion industry and announced that he was walking away from his brand. Now he is trying to make a creative comeback. “It’s basically like being back at square one again,” he said.Mr. Spurr’s meteoric rise began in 1997, when he landed a job designing jersey knits at Nautica straight out of Middlesex University in London. His sharp tailoring and rakish flair led to a stint with Hedi Slimane at Yves Saint Laurent, before he was plucked to head men’s wear design at Calvin Klein’s CK line in New York. Then, from 2003 to 2005, Mr. Spurr was the design director for Ralph Lauren’s Purple Label.In 2006, he set out on his own, with the label Spurr. The idea was to start with something simple, like denim, and expand every season until he reached a full range of men’s wear. He would show at New York Fashion Week, earn accolades, expand his retail reach, dip into accessories, perhaps, and, if all went well, be bought out by an established fashion house.For a while, he seemed well on his way. The 38 pairs of his jeans he sewed by hand sold out immediately at Bergdorf Goodman. He added sportswear the next year, and suiting the year after that. In 2010, he started Simon Spurr, a line of elevated suiting, and showed his first runway collection.But then things went sideways. In 2012, a few days after he was nominated for a Council of Fashion Designers of America award for men’s wear designer of the year, Mr. Spurr announced that he was quitting his brand. At the time, he cited an unexplained disagreement with Judd Nydes, his business partner.Even now, Mr. Spurr remains circumspect about the falling-out. But he did say that he and Mr. Nydes disagreed about the brand’s direction (he wanted to go luxe, while Mr. Nydes wanted to go mass) and that Mr. Nydes had surreptitiously trademarked the name Simon Spurr. “They told me they owned my name,” Mr. Spurr said. “But I will never be owned. So I walked.”Mr. Nydes, who retains control of the defunct label, did not respond to requests for comment.Mr. Spurr banished himself. “I took six months to get my head together and then began looking for work,” he said.He was the creative director for a couple of English brands, including Kent & Curwen, before spending much of 2016 traveling (Cannes, Burning Man, the Bahamas) and reclaiming, if not his name, at least his passions.When it came time for his next project, Mr. Spurr shunned men’s wear, with its high manufacturing cost and smaller market, for the more profitable world of footwear. “That it’s unisex makes the project a lot more financially feasible,” he said. He was also put off by the constant churn of men’s wear seasons. “I wanted to do something that lasts.”The March NYC boots come in two styles — Chelsea boot and zip Cuban heel — and are handmade in a small factory in Reggio Emilia, Italy, from high-quality calfskin, which may explain the aggressive pricing ($795 to $1,195). Unlike his last venture, this one is self-funded. “I relied on a combination of savings, my severance packages and selling old clothes,” he said.In addition to boots, Mr. Spurr has branched out into furniture design. An edition of five modern chairs, crafted out of Carrara marble, is currently on a cargo ship from Italy, and he hopes to sell them for $28,000 each. “They’re between art and furniture, but you’re definitely not supposed to sit on them,” he said.Still, Mr. Spurr has not ruled out a return to men’s wear. He is fielding offers from two fashion houses, he said, waiting for the right fit. “I’ve also got 20 years in the men’s wear field,” he said. “I still have a lot left to say.”
SAN FRANCISCO — The financial start-up SoFi is getting closer to its ambition of being able to replace your bank.SoFi, or Social Finance as it is officially known, announced Tuesday that it was acquiring a company, Zenbanx, allowing SoFi to offer checking accounts, credit cards and international money transfers to its customers.SoFi, based in San Francisco, began in 2011 by refinancing student loans taken out by graduates of elite universities. Since succeeding in that niche, the company has expanded into personal loans, mortgage lending, asset management and even life insurance. But until now it has not been able to accept deposits, one of the most basic functions of a bank.Zenbanx was founded by the former chief executive of ING Direct, Arkadi Kuhlmann. It has built a clientele for online savings accounts that allow customers to move easily among different currencies, while using A.T.M.s to get access to cash.SoFi is tiny compared with even midsize banks — it currently has about 225,000 “members,” as it calls its customers. But it has announced its Silicon Valley-grade ambitions to take on the biggest banks with advertising campaigns — including one during last year’s Super Bowl — that use the tagline “Don’t Bank. SoFi.”SoFi has found a way to continue expanding its business at a time when most other online lenders have had to scale back their ambitions.Many online lenders pulled back early last year at around the same time that the leading player in the field, Lending Club, announced that it was parting ways with its founder, Renaud Laplanche, after discovering accounting irregularities and other problems.SoFi has set itself apart from other online lenders with a more personalized business model that offers customers more than just loans. Services like career advice and even dating events have kept customers engaged beyond the initial transaction.The latest acquisition will allow SoFi to extend those relationships further. By making it easy to move money among currencies, Zenbanx could be attractive for SoFi’s more elite, cosmopolitan clientele.Given SoFi’s frequent criticism of mainstream banks through such means as interviews, blog posts and advertising, it has faced many questions about whether it could eventually become a bank itself. SoFi’s chief executive, Mike Cagney, has said in the past that the company had discussed getting a bank charter in Utah.The Zenbanx acquisition would appear to give SoFi a way to offer the basic functions of a bank without needing a bank charter. Zenbanx completes its transactions through a partnership with WSFS Bank, which is based in Delaware. That setup is expected to continue after the acquisition by SoFi is complete, which is expected to happen in February.
Around midday on Saturday, 50 or so dedicated Blackpool fans will board a bus that will take them to Blackburn. They will be decked out with flags and banners, all in the club’s distinctive bright orange.It is a short journey — 25 miles or so, about an hour’s drive — and a big game. Both clubs are enduring difficult seasons: Blackburn Rovers are 23rd of 24 teams in the Championship, flirting with relegation to the third tier; Blackpool, a Premier League team only six years ago, is now in the middle of the pack in League Two, the bottom rung of English soccer’s league system.Victory offers respite: a place in the fifth round of the F.A. Cup, a chance to rub shoulders with the game’s modern giants, to escape the humdrum reality of the everyday. Saturday should be a day to start a romance.When those fans step off their bus, though, onto the tight, terraced street that flanks Ewood Park, they will do so thinking only about divorce. They will walk to the gates of the stadium, and they will stop. They will be joined by a couple of hundred more Blackpool fans, and perhaps a couple of thousand Blackburn supporters. They will not cheer on their teams. Instead, they will support their clubs by standing outside, united in defiance.“It will be the first game I have missed for years,” said Mark Fish, the chairman of the Blackburn Rovers Action Group. He has traveled to matches home and away for two decades. On Saturday, he said, he will be among those outside. “It will be hard,” he added. “But the owners will use the number of people inside as a way to counteract the message we want to get out, and I can’t countenance adding to that.”The message, for Fish and his group, is that Blackburn’s owners — the Rao family, proprietors of Venky’s, an Indian poultry conglomerate — are no longer welcome. The Raos stand accused, in Fish’s words, of “destroying” the club they bought in 2010, thanks to a series of what he called “disastrous decisions and empty promises.”On the field, Blackburn has slumped from being a “well-performing Premier League team” to finding itself on the cusp of demotion to England’s third tier; off it, attendance has collapsed, with fewer than 10,000 fans turning up for one recent match against Brighton. In 2000, during a previous spell outside the Premier League, twice that number regularly came to watch Rovers play.The disaffection, the fans said, can be traced not just to poor performances but to disdain for the owners: the lack of investment, the absence of communication, the dearth of direction. The Rao family has not attended a game at Ewood Park for three years, Fish said. He and his group send letters to the Raos’ base in Pune, India, twice a month, trying to open a dialogue. “We have never had a response,” he said.The fans feel abandoned, overlooked; the dwindling crowds suggest they have even started to drift away from the club. “You will lose a generation, who never have chance to fall in love with Blackburn,” Fish said. “Kids will think of football as a TV show.”If anything, the situation is even more toxic at Blackpool. It started with fans accusing the club’s owner, Karl Oyston, of using some of the funds raised from a season in the Premier League to prop up his other businesses, and it has descended from there. In 2014, fans intentionally delayed a televised game against Burnley by throwing tennis balls and tangerines onto the field at the club’s Bloomfield Road stadium.Since then, a campaign called “Not a Penny More” has been running for years, aimed squarely at forcing out Oyston by reducing attendance to an unsustainable level.Its effect has been startling: Blackpool has attracted more than 4,000 fans only once this season. There have been field invasions and protests, and an “alternative” home jersey was released to ensure fans did not have to pay for the official version. Fans who have held their season tickets for decades — some for a half-century or more — have given them up.Oyston has responded in kind: banning the local newspaper from the club and starting litigation against a number of supporters. A representative of the Tangerine Knights, a supporters’ group, declined to speak on the record because of the threat of legal reprisals from Oyston.But while Blackburn and Blackpool are particularly virulent examples of what happens when the relationship between a club and its fans breaks down, they are far from the only ones.Protests are not isolated to England, of course — fans of the Spanish club Valencia are currently demonstrating against that team’s owner, Peter Lim, and Italian ultras refuse to attend games with reasonable regularity to protest unpopular decisions — but the level of unrest among fans here is striking. English soccer, in many ways, is in its golden age: richer than it has ever been, riding a wave of global popularity, convinced of its own success.And yet, in recent months alone, there have been demonstrations at Coventry City, Leyton Orient, Nottingham Forest and Leeds United.Fans of Charlton Athletic have been protesting against its Belgian owner, Roland Duchatelet, almost since his arrival. At one point, they even staged a mock funeral for their club.Once again, Duchatelet is largely absent; once again, the disdain for the fans is not even thinly veiled. “He called us stupid in December,” said Steve Clarke, vice president of the Charlton Athletic Supporters’ Trust. “When we complain, we are told we are wrong. There is an almost Trump-like denial of the facts.”The facts, as elsewhere, are that results have been poor and attendance is slipping. In more and more places, fans feel so detached, so alienated, that they come unmoored entirely.The phenomenon is not unique to the lower tiers: In the Premier League, Hull City fans have spent much of the season protesting their team’s owner, Assem Allam. “Initially, his unpopularity was because he wanted to rename the club,” said Geoff Bielby of the Hull City Supporters’ Trust. The current protests, though, are more related to a change in ticket pricing. “He has overseen two promotions and an F.A. Cup final,” Bielby said, “and he’s still managed to be unpopular.”The anger, though, spreads higher. At Blackburn, as at Blackpool, Charlton, Hull and so many other places up and down England, much of the blame is apportioned to the country’s soccer authorities, accused of failing to protect clubs from owners without their best interests at heart. Blackpool’s Tangerine Knights want club owners to be assessed annually to check that they are taking care of the institutions they curate. At Blackburn, they would like to see something broader still.“We want a full inquiry into how football clubs are run,” said Fish, the Blackburn fan. “This is a pattern. It is an infection that the Football Association, the Premier League and the Football League have done absolutely nothing to cure.”
SEOUL, South Korea — A court ruled Thursday that a South Korean temple can have a Buddha statue that was stolen from a Japanese temple in 2012, on the grounds that it had been taken from Korea centuries earlier by Japanese pirates.Japan called the ruling “regrettable” and urged the statue’s return. The dispute is being closely watched by both governments, whose relations are often roiled by historical disputes.The 20-inch gilded bronze statue was taken from a Buddhist temple on Tsushima, a Japanese island halfway between the two countries, by South Koreans who also stole another statue from a Shinto shrine there. The thieves were caught while trying to sell the artifacts in South Korea, and the statue from the Shinto shrine was eventually returned to Japan.But a South Korean temple, Buseoksa, which says the Buddha statue was made there in the 14th century, won a court injunction in 2013 preventing its return until it could be determined whether it had originally been brought to Tsushima legitimately.The statue, of the Buddha in the lotus position, has been in the government’s custody since then, and on Thursday a district court in Daejeon, a city south of Seoul, ruled that it should be given to Buseoksa. The government, which was the defendant in the civil suit, did not say whether it would appeal.Upbeat monks at Buseoksa, in the west coast city of Seosan, prepared for the statue’s homecoming. The temple’s chief monk, the Venerable Wonwoo, hailed the ruling as a milestone that should inspire South Koreans to try to bring home what he claimed were 70,000 ancient Korean artifacts that had been looted and brought to Japan. Buddhists and other South Koreans have rallied behind Buseoksa’s campaign.The Japanese temple, Kannonji, was not a direct party to the lawsuit, but it argued at the trial that the statue had not been removed from Korea illicitly, noting that there had been legitimate trade in goods, including Buddha statues, between Korea and Tsushima in ancient times. The statue has been designated an important cultural asset in Japan.After an investigation, South Korea’s Cultural Heritage Administration said in 2014 that it was “probable” that the statue had been taken to Japan by plunderers, though it could not reach a definitive conclusion.Scholars supporting Buseoksa’s cause cited a document found inside the statue’s belly in 1951, which they said showed that the statue was manufactured in Seosan in the 14th century. They said it did not record a transfer of ownership to the Japanese temple, although such a document normally would.They also presented the court with historical documents showing that parts of Korea’s west coast near Seosan had been visited by pirates from Japan during the 14th century. And they said the statue had burn damage, which they said could be a sign it had been plundered by pirates.“There is enough reason to think that the statue belongs to Buseoksa,” the presiding judge, Moon Bo-gyeong, ruled Thursday.In Tokyo, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshihide Suga called the ruling “very regrettable.” He urged South Korea to take “appropriate” action to ensure the statue’s swift return to Japan.“The Japanese government has appealed to the Korean government through various diplomatic channels to request the return of this statue to Japan as soon as possible,” he said at a news conference.A spokesman for the South Korean Foreign Ministry, Cho June-hyuck, said the ministry would try to resolve the matter with Japan “based on mutual trust.”
The St. Louis Cardinals will have to turn over their top two draft picks and $2 million to the Houston Astros as punishment for hacking into the Astros’ computer system to steal information about players, Major League Baseball announced on Monday.The Cardinals will turn over the 56th and 75th selection overall in this year’s draft. Because they signed the free agent Dexter Fowler in the off season, the Cardinals did not have a first-round pick. They will have to write a check to the Astros for $2 million within 30 days.In addition, Christopher Correa, the scouting director who pleaded guilty to involvement in the hacking and was sentenced to nearly four years in prison, was been banned from baseball for life. Baseball did not punish any other individuals besides Correa.The ruling was signed by Commissioner Rob Manfred.Correa broke into Astros databases that included discussions about trades, proprietary statistics and scouting reports. Law enforcement officials believed the hacking was executed in revenge over the departure to the Astros of Jeff Luhnow, an executive with the Cardinals until 2011.“We respect the Commissioner’s decision and appreciate that there is now a final resolution to this matter,” Cardinals chairman Bill DeWitt Jr. said in a statement in The St. Louis Post-Dispatch.The Astros said in a statement: “The Houston Astros support MLB’s ruling and award of penalties. This unprecedented award by the commissioner’s office sends a clear message of the severity of these action.”
NAIROBI, Kenya — It started out in Washington.Then it went to Jakarta. Then across Africa.One version even showed up on Facebook.Within hours, a State Department dissent cable, asserting that President Trump’s executive order to temporarily bar citizens from seven Muslim-majority countries would not make the nation safer, traveled like a chain letter — or a viral video.The cable wended its way through dozens of American embassies around the world, quickly emerging as one of the broadest protests by American officials against their president’s policies. And it is not over yet.By 4 p.m. on Tuesday, the letter had attracted around 1,000 signatures, State Department officials said, far more than any dissent cable in recent years. It was being delivered to management, and department officials said more diplomats wanted to add their names to it.The State Department has 7,600 Foreign Service officers and 11,000 civil servants.The letter had been evolving since this weekend, when the first draft emerged. It was edited as it moved along, with some diplomats adding words and others striking out passages.For example, one diplomat suggested this sentence should simply end on “lasting shame”: “The decision to restrict the freedom of Japanese-Americans in the United States and foreign nationals who wanted to travel to or settle in the United States during the 1940s has been a source of lasting shame for many in our country.”Some officials who were trying to sign the document on Tuesday said it was not clear who was in charge or who was collecting signatures. The letter was passed through official State Department email accounts and on government time — several diplomats said union rules allowed them to work on dissent memos on the clock.“Policy dissent is in our culture,” said one diplomat in Africa, who did not want to speak publicly before the letter was released. “We even have awards for it.”The letter, which harshly took apart the executive order, said the visa ban would “alienate allies” and “hurt America economically.” Foreign travelers inject nearly $250 billion into the American economy, the letter said, supporting more than one million jobs.Some diplomats said they joined the dissent by sending an email saying “I’m in” or “Please add my name as a signer” along with their full name, title, position and post.The letter was apparently circulated through informal networks of diplomats and not through any State Department-wide email list. One diplomat on vacation in the United States said he received the letter from a colleague in another part of the world who was not connected to the drafters and was simply passing it along.The diplomat predicted that hundreds of other diplomats would be eager to sign it if they could, but because of the complications of figuring out where the dissent memo originally came from, he was not sure how many would actually sign it.Most people in the State Department have never seen anything like this, the diplomat said. He said dissent memos were reserved for major policy issues, not for little grumbles like bad food in the embassy cafeteria.That diplomat also requested anonymity, saying that Foreign Service officers were not supposed to criticize American policy publicly and that he did not want to open himself up to accusations that he had violated the rules. That could threaten his job, he said, especially in such a polarized environment.This is exactly what the dissent channel, as it is called, was intended for.Starting in 1971 during the Vietnam War, the channel encourages department officials to voice their criticisms internally through a process of sending a memo or a cable to the secretary of state expressing their concerns and suggesting solutions. The final part of the visa ban memo lays out detailed alternatives, including increased vetting for specific nationalities.State Department rules are supposed to protect dissenters from being retaliated against, and last year several dozen diplomats signed a dissent memo criticizing American policy on Syria.But however officially tolerated, several veteran diplomats said dissent was still risky. When it comes to ambassadorships, the selection process is highly competitive — and highly subjective — and the diplomats said it would be impossible to prove why someone had been blocked from a coveted post. Previous dissent could easily be used against the person.Some State Department officials said on Tuesday that they would not sign the letter because of those risks. While one said he disagreed with the visa ban, he considered it his job to enforce American government policies whether or not he agreed with them.Other diplomats said the letter did not mean that dissenters would disobey the visa ban. The intent was to try to change the policy so the ban would be lifted, they said.The diplomat who said he would not use a dissent memo to complain about cafeteria food said that he had been torn when the United States invaded Iraq because he was strongly against the war, but that he did not know how to express his concern.He said he was just starting out at the time.The visa ban, he said, “was such obviously bad policy” that he was trying to find a way to sign the dissent letter.He also said that many diplomats were using the letter as a vehicle to express broader concerns about the way the Trump administration has appeared to sideline the State Department.The diplomat spoke in defense of refugees, saying that the tiny percentage from, say, Somalia who had been approved for resettlement in the United States had been scrutinized by several agencies and were among the most vulnerable of very vulnerable people. Now, many are stuck in limbo in transit centers.The diplomat also criticized Mr. Trump’s press secretary, Sean Spicer, who said on Monday that State Department officials who did not agree with Mr. Trump’s agenda “should either get with the program or they can go.”He called that “bullying at the highest levels.”
WASHINGTON — The White House on Monday warned State Department officials that they should leave their jobs if they did not agree with President Trump’s agenda, an extraordinary effort to stamp out a wave of internal dissent against Mr. Trump’s temporary ban on entry visas for people from seven predominantly Muslim countries.Career officials at the State Department are circulating a so-called dissent cable, which says that Mr. Trump’s executive order closing the nation’s doors to more than 200 million people with the intention of weeding out a handful of would-be terrorists will not make the nation safer, and might instead deepen the threat.“These career bureaucrats have a problem with it?” Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, told reporters. “They should either get with the program or they can go.”It was yet another stark confrontation between the new president, who is moving swiftly to upend years of policies, and a federal bureaucracy still struggling with the jolting change of power in Washington. There is open hostility to Mr. Trump’s ideas in some pockets of the government, and deep frustration among those enforcing the visa ban that the White House announced the order without warning or consulting them.On Monday night, Mr. Trump fired acting Attorney General Sally Q. Yates for refusing to enforce the visa ban. In her place, Mr. Trump named Dana J. Boente, United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, to serve as acting attorney general until Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama is confirmed. A spokesman said Mr. Boente had told the White House that he was willing to sign off on the executive order.The reverberations extended beyond Washington. Corporate chieftains from Detroit to Silicon Valley sharply criticized the ban, saying it was inconsistent with their values. Mr. Trump also faced mounting legal challenges, as two Democratic-leaning states, Massachusetts and Washington, signaled they would attack the policy in court and a Muslim advocacy group filed a lawsuit calling it an unconstitutional religious test.At the White House, where questions about the ban overshadowed all other issues on Monday, Mr. Spicer acknowledged the State Department’s dissent channel has long been a way for its staff to register objections over administration policies. But he displayed little patience for it.“The president has a very clear vision,” Mr. Spicer said. “He’s been clear on it since the campaign, he’s been clear on it since taking office — that he’s going to put the country first.”“If somebody has a problem with that agenda,” he added, “that does call into question whether or not they should continue in that post.”The visa ban has rattled other agencies, as well: the Defense Department, which says it hurts the military’s local partners in conflict zones like Iraq; the Department of Homeland Security, whose customs officers are struggling to enforce the directive; and the Justice Department, whose lawyers are charged with defending its legality.But Mr. Spicer’s blunt warning posed an especially difficult choice for the more than 100 State Department officials who indicated they would sign the memo. They can sign a final version, which would be put on the desk of Rex W. Tillerson, Mr. Trump’s designated secretary of state, on his first day in office. Or, they can choose not to identify themselves, and rely on the leak of the letter to make their point without identifying themselves.Under State Department rules and whistle-blower laws, it is forbidden to retaliate against any employee who follows the procedures and submits a dissent memorandum. One of the signatories, in a text message, said State Department signatories were trying to figure out what to do.The memorandum began to take shape late last week, as word of Mr. Trump’s executive order leaked out. The sponsors quickly gathered more than 100 signatures, an unusually large number, but a draft of the memo was still being refined over the weekend.Last summer, 51 State Department officials signed one protesting President Barack Obama’s policy in Syria, which they asserted had been “overwhelmed” by the violence there. They handed the cable to Secretary of State John Kerry.The State Department confirmed the existence of the memo on Monday, and it affirmed the right of its staff to dissent.“This is an important process that the acting secretary, and the department as a whole, respect and value,” said a spokesman, Mark Toner.The speed with which the memo was assembled and the number of signers underscore the degree to which the State Department has become a center of the resistance to Mr. Trump’s order. More broadly, it represents objections to his efforts to cut back on American participation in international organizations and to issue ultimatums to allies.Not surprisingly, the diplomats and Civil Service officers of the State Department are among the most internationally minded in the government; they have lived around the world and devoted their careers to building alliances and promoting American values abroad.That was reflected in parts of the draft of the dissent memo circulating in the State Department. It warned that the executive order “will increase anti-American sentiment,” and that “instead of building bridges to these societies,” it would “send the message that we consider all nationals of these countries to be an unacceptable security risk.”Among those whose views will be changed are “current and future leaders in these societies — including those for whom this may be a tipping point toward radicalization.” It also warned of an immediate humanitarian effect on those who come “to seek medical treatment for a child with a rare heart condition, to attend a parent’s funeral.”“We do not need to alienate entire societies to stay safe,” the memo concludes.Overseas, Iraqi officials said they were surprised by the directive, which they learned about through the American news media; they had not been consulted first. Objections from Baghdad are notable since Iraq is a front-line partner in the campaign against the Islamic State.At the Pentagon, senior officials plan to send the White House a list of Iraqi citizens who have served with American forces with the recommendation that they be exempt from the visa ban. Officials said the Iraqis who would be put on the Defense Department list already had undergone a stringent form of vetting because they had served with the United States military in combat.“There are a number of people in Iraq who have worked for us in a partnership role, whether fighting alongside us or working as translators, often doing so at great peril to themselves,” Capt. Jeff Davis, a Pentagon spokesman, said. “Those who support us there and do so at risk to themselves, we will make sure those contributions of support, those personal risks they’ve taken, are recognized in this process.”Captain Davis said department officials were compiling names of Iraqis who had served as drivers, interpreters, linguists and in other jobs with American military personnel in Iraq over the years. He declined to say how many Iraqi citizens might be included in the list or what Defense Secretary Jim Mattis’s personal recommendations to Mr. Trump were on the matter.The Pentagon list is intended to address a major criticism of Mr. Trump’s executive order: that it will stop the flow of former Iraqi interpreters and cultural advisers who have sought special visas to move to the United States for their own protection.
Stephen Curry beat the buzzer from just beyond halfcourt before halftime, then scored 25 of his 43 points in the third quarter Saturday to lead the Golden State Warriors to their ninth win in 10 games, 144-98, over the visiting Los Angeles Clippers.Curry’s 51-foot shot was one of nine 3-pointers he hit for the Warriors, who also got 23 points from Kevin Durant and 16 from Klay Thompson. Curry dived on the floor and danced with his teammates after his buzzer-beater, then outscored the Clippers by himself in the third quarter, when Los Angeles had 23 points.Blake Griffin scored 20 points for the struggling Clippers, who have lost four of five since point guard Chris Paul went down with a torn ligament in his left thumb.AROUND THE N.B.A. Goran Dragic scored 23 points, Wayne Ellington added 19 and Miami Heat pushed the N.B.A.’s longest current winning streak to seven games by topping visiting Detroit, 116-103.  Isaiah Thomas had 37 points, and Jae Crowder made four free throws in the final 28 seconds of overtime to help Boston win at Milwaukee, 112-108.  DeMarcus Cousins scored 35 points, including the go-ahead layup with 14.3 seconds left, and visiting Sacramento beat Charlotte, 109-106, to send the Hornets to their fourth straight loss.  Karl-Anthony Towns had 37 points and 13 rebounds to lead host Minnesota over the Nets, 129-109. The Nets have lost five straight and 21 of their last 23 games.Lindsey Vonn fell and hit the safety netting during a World Cup downhill in exactly the same spot where she crashed a day earlier in a training session.“I’m too old to be hitting the fence that hard,” said Vonn, 32, who walked away without serious injuries.Lara Gut of Switzerland, the defending overall champion, won her first downhill of the season, finishing 0.05 of a second ahead of Sofia Goggia in Cortina d’Ampezzo, Italy.AUSTRIAN TAKES MEN’S RACE Hannes Reichelt of Austria led from the start to win a downhill race in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany, for his first World Cup victory of the season, beating Italy’s Peter Fill by 0.16 of a second.The N.H.L.’s top officials are still leaning against allowing the world’s top hockey players to participate in the Pyeongchang Olympics next year.Deputy Commissioner Bill Daly said the Board of Governors did not want to shut down the league to allow its players to participate.Daly said he did not know what it would take to changes the owners’ minds. There is no firm deadline for a decision, though it has already been left for later than in the past.The players gathered in Los Angeles for All-Star weekend were hopeful they would be allowed to play.Stacy Lewis eagled the final hole to seize a share of the lead alongside Lexi Thompson after the third round of the L.P.G.A. Bahamas Classic in Paradise Island.Lewis’s 10-under-par 63 included two eagles and seven birdies. Thompson followed her record-setting second-round 61 with a bogey-free 66. (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)TIED IN SAN DIEGO Patrick Rodgers shot a five-under 67 to share the lead with the defending champion Brandt Snedeker going into the final round of the Farmers Insurance Open in San Diego.Many Clouds, the winner of Britain’s 2015 Grand National, collapsed and died after a final stunning victory.At Cheltenham, the 10-year-old Many Clouds shocked Thistlecrack to win the Cotswold Chase by a head before falling after the winning post. He was treated by veterinary staff before his death was confirmed.“He wanted to win that race,” the trainer Oliver Sherwood said. “He was beaten and then fought back in the last 50 yards to win.”Frank Mason III scored 21 points, Josh Jackson had 20 points and No. 2 Kansas beat No. 4 Kentucky, 79-73. It was Kansas’ second straight win on Kentucky’s home floor.Kansas (19-2) missed all of its 3-point tries in the first half but hit 5 of 11 after halftime. Malik Monk and Derek Willis each had 18 points for Kentucky (17-4), which lost its second straight.SYRACUSE PULLS AN UPSET Andrew White scored 24 points, John Gillon had 21 points and had 11 assists, and host Syracuse upset No. 6 Florida State, 82-72.AROUND COLLEGE BASKETBALL The freshman Bruce Brown needed only 11 shots to score a career-high 30 points, and the host Miami Hurricanes upset No. 9 North Carolina, 77-62.  Josh Okogie scored a fast-break layup as time expired and Georgia Tech beat No. 14 Notre Dame, 62-60, in Atlanta.  In a women’s game, Gabby Williams scored 19 points to lead top-ranked Connecticut to a rout of Houston, 91-42, in Hartford for the Huskies’ 95th straight win.California’s Davis Webb directed scoring drives on all three of his possessions to lead the South to a 16-15 victory over the North in the Senior Bowl in Mobile, Ala.Webb was named the most valuable player in the game, a showcase event for N.F.L. hopefuls.
Stephen P. Cohen, a Canadian-born professor who secretly brokered peace talks between Arab and Israeli officials for three decades, died on Wednesday at his home in Teaneck, N.J. He was 71.The cause was advanced breast cancer, his wife, Elaine, said.The son of a Jewish immigrant from Eastern Europe, Mr. Cohen found that his academic credentials and Canadian citizenship lent him the credibility to arrange the first direct and informal (but sanctioned) talks between the Israeli government and Yasir Arafat, the Palestine Liberation Organization leader, early in 1986.Mr. Cohen also met with Anwar el-Sadat, the Egyptian president, in Alexandria before Sadat and Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel signed the Camp David accords in 1978. Mr. Cohen was credited with advancing other Israeli peace initiatives with Egypt and Jordan.In 1979, Mr. Cohen founded the Institute for Middle East Peace and Development at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York in Manhattan. Later independent of the university, the institute remained a vehicle for his advocacy on behalf of peace in the Middle East, however distant a prospect that was.“Strange how in the Middle East making peace looks so similar to waging political war,” he lamented in an Op-Ed article in The New York Times in 1989.In 1986, Mr. Cohen was the catalyst for the first three clandestine sessions in Paris and Brussels between Israeli and Palestinian representatives, two from each side.Ostensibly, those talks were limited in scope to missing or captured soldiers, but they went beyond those matters. The talks stalled when the P.L.O. refused to budge on its demand that the Soviet Union join on an equal footing with the United States in an international mediation conference, and they collapsed a few months later after Shimon Peres departed as prime minister.“Steve was the initiator of these meetings and served as the go-between,” Shlomo Gazit, one of the two Israelis and a former head of the military intelligence service, said in an email on Thursday. “The fact that Steve was Jewish did not in any way disturb the parties. Steve did not give up, and for years did his best to renew meetings and talks, unfortunately without success.”Ephraim Sneh, an Israeli politician and former deputy defense minister, described Mr. Cohen in an email as “the lone guerrilla warrior of peace.”Despite repeated setbacks, Mr. Cohen’s broad recipe for peace in the troubled region remained remarkably consistent, according to “The Go-Between,” a memoir he published last year (written with Oren Rawls), as well as other accounts.He generally favored the gradual emergence of a United Nations-mandated Palestinian state supervised by the United States and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, though that, he wrote, would require “the gamble for peace by a great regional leader” and “the American refusal to take no for an answer.”In an interview with the Times columnist Thomas L. Friedman in 2003, Mr. Cohen said: “Israel can’t force the Palestinians to be reasonable, to pursue their interests and not their passions, but it can create a context where they are more likely to do so than not. But with its relentless settlement activity, and responding to every Hamas provocation by smashing the Palestinian Authority, Israel has not done that.”Meanwhile, Mr. Cohen said in 2002, “it turns out Arafat wanted two Palestinian states.”“He wanted a Palestinian state for the West Bank and Gaza to be negotiated with Israel today,” he added. “And he wanted a Palestinian state inside Israel that would be brought about by a return of Palestinian refugees and their soaring birthrate tomorrow. Israel was ready to give him one Palestinian state, but not two. And Arafat didn’t have the courage to tell his people that.”Stephen Philip Cohen was born in Quebec on May 28, 1945. His father, Harry, an immigrant from Lithuania, owned an auto parts business. His mother, born in Montreal to Jewish immigrants from Romania, was a bookkeeper.He received a bachelor’s degree from McGill University in Montreal and a doctorate from Harvard. He was an assistant professor at Harvard, an associate professor at the City University Graduate Center and an analyst for the Israel Policy Forum, a Manhattan think tank that favors a two-state solution.In 1973, after Egypt launched a surprise attack against Israel in what became known as the Yom Kippur War, Mr. Cohen took a leave from Harvard to enlist in the Israeli Army and use his training as a social psychologist to bolster morale at the front.In addition to his wife, the former Elaine Rachel Shizgal, he is survived by three daughters, Rabbi Tamara Ruth Cohen, Rabbi Ayelet Sonya Cohen and Maya Orli Cohen; five grandchildren; and a brother, Prof. Richard I. Cohen of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.While Mr. Cohen was sometimes confused with other academics of the same name (Stephen F. Cohen, a Russia expert at New York University, was once bear-hugged at a party by President Bill Clinton, who wanted to consult about Middle East policy), he carved out a reputation as a go-to wise man on all matters Middle East.After the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, he paraphrased Lincoln in reacting to anger at Muslims, cautioning that “we must fight those among them who pray only to the God of Hate, but we do not want to go to war with Islam, with all the millions of Muslims who pray to the same God we do.”He also expressed concern that some of the outpouring of support in Europe for Palestinians had a more sinister motivation.“For too many Europeans, Arabs are of no moral interest in and of themselves,” he said in 2003. “They only become of interest if they are fighting Jews or being manhandled by Jews. Then their liberation becomes paramount, because calling for it is a way to stick it to the Jews.”For all the successes he achieved through his diplomatic and psychological skills, Mr. Cohen had no illusions about the so-called peace process.“The Israelis wanted peace, while maintaining underlying control of the Palestinians,” he said in 2000. “The Palestinians wanted peace, without giving up their hatred of Israel. With such ambivalence we can only get cease-fires.”But he did not consider his quest quixotic. In 1986, he conferred with Mr. Arafat (whom he had first met in 1981) in a desert bunker just four months after the Israelis had demolished his headquarters in Tunis, yet the P.L.O. leader still agreed to send negotiators to Paris.“Three decades later,” he wrote in an essay published this week in The Forward, “it is hard to imagine a future between Israelis and Palestinians free of burning confrontation. Yet it is worth recalling that hope for peace was no greater in 1986 than it is today.“Eventually, inevitably,” he continued, “the Israeli and Palestinian leaders will conclude” that “finding a way of living under better circumstances is the only realistic goal.”
See our favorite looks shot between the shows during couture week in Paris.
Between the men’s shows in Paris, off-runway looks proved stylish.
The political ads warned that illegal immigrants were dashing, by the millions, over the Mexican border, racing to claim taxpayer-funded public services in California.“They keep coming,” the announcer intoned over grainy aerial footage and a thrumming bassline. When viewed on YouTube today, these ads hardly seem the stuff of multicultural California as we know it.In 1994, though, that message helped lift California’s governor, the Republican Pete Wilson, to re-election. That same year, voters adopted a referendum, Proposition 187, denying state services to undocumented immigrants, including public education and health care.California is often held up as a harbinger of the demographics — and, Democrats hope, the politics — of the nation to come. Mr. Wilson’s bet against immigration is thought to have hurt Republicans in the long run in the state. But in the dawn of the Trump era, the state is also a cautionary tale of what happens during the tumultuous years when that change is occurring rapidly.Donald J. Trump has taken office in a nation that is not only growing more diverse, but also growing more diverse everywhere, because of both foreign immigration and shifting internal migration patterns that are touching the last bastions of nearly all-white America.After an election in which Mr. Trump appealed to unease about the nation’s changing identity — and a month when he alarmed civil rights leaders and immigration advocates — his presidency poses a very different question from his predecessor’s.Not: Are we post-racial? But: How will we handle the racial change that is only going to accelerate?Sociological studies suggest that increasing contact between groups can yield familiarity and tolerance. But it can also unnerve, especially in communities where that rapid change is most visible — and when politicians stand to gain by exploiting it. California lashed out at diversity before embracing it.“There’s a very rich history of xenophobia, of racism, of trying to wipe each other out,” said Connie Rice, a longtime civil rights lawyer in California. “It’s not like we were all of a sudden born the Golden State.” State leaders pushed for the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II. “This is where the Chinese weren’t even allowed to own property,” she noted.Rush Limbaugh started building his following as a right-wing radio talk show host in Sacramento in the 1980s. The ’90s in California brought the Rodney King riots, a strict three-strikes law, the contentious Proposition 187 fight and ballot measures in which voters rejected affirmative action and bilingual education. “We went through a pretty chaotic last 20 years,” said Manuel Pastor, a University of Southern California sociologist.But this is the same state that today vows to defend immigrants from deportation, a place where voters have supported a higher minimum wage and prison reforms that benefit minority residents. “You would not have predicted that from amid that chaos,” he said.The demographic change California underwent between 1980 and 2000, Mr. Pastor said, mirrors the change (and projected change) in the United States since 2000 and up to 2050, when whites are expected to be less than half of the nation’s population.“The United States just went through its Prop. 187 moment,” Mr. Pastor said of this presidential election. The question is whether the rest of the country can adjust faster to demographic change — or with less conflict — than California did. “Why go through all of our pain? That was no fun, and it dashed a lot of people’s lives. We underinvested in education. We over-imprisoned, so we got a lot of people locked out of the labor market. We broke apart a lot of families because of anti-immigrant sentiments. We did a lot of stupid things to ourselves.”California’s example suggests that the very demographic trend Democrats believe will benefit them in the long run could aid Republicans in the near term. At least, that remains true so long as Republican candidates like Mr. Trump or Mr. Wilson position themselves in opposition to immigration or policies perceived as aiding minorities.Mr. Trump fared particularly well in the parts of the country where demographic change is accelerating. Scholars say that it’s the change in diversity that helps explain how a community responds. So an influx of Hispanics into Chicago may not be noticeable, but a few new immigrant families into small-town Pennsylvania is.Map the most diverse corners of the country, and historical gateways like Chicago pop out.But look instead where the recent change has been sharpest — typically starting with a modest number of nonwhite residents — and a different set of places emerges.While the top map includes Democratic-leaning counties around big cities, the Southern Black Belt and the Mexican border, the second captures many of the rural Midwestern counties that helped deliver Mr. Trump the election. A Wall Street Journal analysis found during the primaries that the most rapidly diversifying counties in a cluster of Midwestern states were more likely to vote for Mr. Trump.In the general election, voters were more likely to shift to Mr. Trump in the counties with the strongest growth in the Hispanic and nonwhite populations since 2000, according to research from a coming book by Ryan Enos, a Harvard political scientist. It appears in survey data, Mr. Enos argues, that this shift in 2016 was driven by whites who had previously voted Democratic — and who don’t appear to have responded in the same way to rising diversity before Mr. Trump’s campaign.The long-term Democratic bet on demographic destiny assumes that minority voters who support the party today will continue to in the future. But it also assumes that today’s white Democrats will stay with the party as the context around them shifts. Evidence like Mr. Enos’s suggests there’s no guarantee, particularly regarding the timeline of tolerance. White voters in California may have eventually been persuaded that their Hispanic neighbors were no threat to the local economy or their children’s classrooms, but white voters in Midwestern small towns may have been unnerved by the change around them enough for a meaningful shift in votes in this past election.Diversity, long considered a characteristic of big cities, has been spreading into rural America. The sociologists Gregory Sharp and Barrett Lee looked at nearly 10,000 smaller towns and rural communities across the country; more than nine in 10 experienced a rise in diversity between 1990 and 2010. That’s happening because immigrants have followed new jobs in agriculture and oil and natural gas production, Mr. Lee said, and because they’ve been looking for more opportunity and cheaper housing.But it’s also happening because nonimmigrant minorities have been dispersing from central cities. And they’re all moving to places with less experience incorporating difference.“Look at New York: For generations, one of its functions in some ways has been to absorb newcomers,” Mr. Lee said. “Contrast that with smaller towns in, say, the Midwest. While many of those at some point long ago had ethnic diversity — there were Germans and English and maybe some Dutch mixed in — they don’t really have that kind of institutional infrastructure.”The smaller towns haven’t held many classes in which English is taught as a second language, or elections with significant nonwhite voting blocs.“When I talk to people about their concerns about immigration, they often talk about language,” said Daniel Hopkins, a political scientist at the University of Pennsylvania.“They talk about being uncomfortable having to ‘press 1 for English,’ or seeing Spanish-language signs. They talk about the feeling of dispossession that comes from having lived for a long time in a community and seeing it change.”That sense of lost identity and ownership echoes how white communities often reacted to desegregation, Mr. Hopkins said. It is not, however, abrupt demographic change alone that unnerves, his research has found, but that kind of change amplified by politics.“In this brew that generates anti-immigrant sentiment, there needs to be a politicizing factor,” Mr. Hopkins said. “There needs to be a politician, a set of politicians, or a party who call attention to immigration, who make it an issue.”There needs to be, well, a Mr. Trump.There is no neat tipping point, no level of diversity beyond which the backlash inevitably gives way to greater tolerance. The volume of political bluster matters. So does the level of segregation, because diversity doesn’t necessarily mean communities are integrating. So does the kind of contact that occurs when different groups bump up against one another.Research from the 1950s found that integrated military units reduced prejudice and stereotyping. And studies since then have shown that soldiers have more interracial friendships than typical civilians (as veterans, they’re also more likely to buy homes in more integrated areas). But soldiers engage in a rare kind of contact: They live together, eat together and work together on common goals.That’s a different kind of contact than occurs when we pass strangers in the supermarket aisle, or encounter Spanish-language signs. And even in the most demographically diverse cities, there is often little integration of schools, neighborhoods and workplaces.In Mr. Enos’s earlier work, he found that white voters in the most segregated counties nationally were five to six percentage points less likely to vote for Barack Obama in 2008 than white voters in the least segregated places, with a similar effect within states. That suggests that the nature of contact matters not just for disarming prejudice but for shaping politics. And often, when new groups come into a community, they immediately segregate.“That happens very quickly, and you have this period where you have the worst possible circumstances for intergroup relations,” Mr. Enos said. A new, growing group raises threat levels for longtime residents. And with segregation and without enough time, the two have little chance for positive interaction. “Who knows how long that time lasts,” Mr. Enos said, “but at some point that worst possible circumstance eases.”California moves on as Arizona, with its later waves of demographic change, takes up the vanguard of anti-immigration politics. Communities develop the institutions they lacked. The political advantages of exploiting change recede.In another study, Mr. Enos found that the mere presence of a few Spanish speakers on a train platform was enough to raise anti-immigrant sentiment among commuters in the white, liberal Boston suburbs. But as the same Spanish speakers kept appearing over two weeks, those attitudes softened. The commuters began to smile at one another.“In the short run, diversity is difficult,” said Robert Putnam, a Harvard sociologist. He published a widely discussed paper in 2007 arguing that diversity causes groups to withdraw from one another, both from people who don’t look like us and — surprisingly — from those who do (people generally “pull in like a turtle,” he wrote). His data suggesting that diversity reduces trust and social capital was cited by opponents of affirmative action. But in his full argument, Mr. Putnam too insisted that the trouble eventually ebbs.“In the long run, America is pretty good at coming to terms with that and moving past it,” he said. “But the long term is measured in terms of decades.”It may be measured in the difference between where California is today and where the country is about to go.
Navient, the nation’s largest servicer of student loans, has for years misled borrowers and made serious mistakes at nearly every step of the collections process, illegally driving up loan repayment costs for millions of borrowers, according to lawsuits filed on Wednesday by a federal regulator and two state attorneys general.Navient handles $300 billion in private and federal loans for some 12 million people — touching about one in four student loan borrowers. Every customer may have been affected by Navient’s misdeeds, said Lisa Madigan, the attorney general of Illinois, announcing her own lawsuit with the one filed by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.Navient does not make the loans, but it holds lucrative contracts to collect payments each month on behalf of banks, government and other lenders.The damages sought could reach billions of dollars, said Ms. Madigan, who sued Navient and Sallie Mae — which split into the two companies in 2014. Washington State’s attorney general, Bob Ferguson, filed a similar lawsuit against Navient.The lawsuits describe routine mistakes and lapses in oversight that over time added up to systematic failures, eerily similar to the mortgage servicing industry’s bungling of borrower accounts and property foreclosures during the 2008 recession. Financial companies eventually paid more than $100 billion to settle mortgage-related lawsuits.Navient mishandled loan payments, buried critical information in fine print and set obstacles for borrowers trying to release co-signers from their loans, among other failings, according to the consumer bureau’s legal filing.The move was one of a series of late-hour actions by the Obama administration just days before the inauguration of Donald J. Trump. It is also a politically perilous time for the consumer bureau, which has long been the target of criticism by Republican lawmakers. Several have called for the president-elect to fire its director, Richard Cordray — a move that would likely set off a legal challenge over the president’s authority to do so.Republicans have also taken aim at the Dodd-Frank Act, the 2010 law that imposed more regulations on banks and created the consumer bureau. The law also specified that the bureau’s director can be fired only for cause, defined as “inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance.”Crushing student debt was a flash point on the campaign trail, as students complained that loans had diminished their career prospects. The issue helped fuel Bernie Sanders’s campaign in the Democratic primaries, and sparked discussions about reining in college costs. Total outstanding student loan debt hovers at more than $1.4 trillion. Student loan debt has surpassed credit card and auto loan debt.Navient, which plans to fight the lawsuits, denied all wrongdoing.“The allegations of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau are unfounded, and the timing of this lawsuit — midnight action filed on the eve of a new administration — reflects their political motivations,” Patricia Nash Christel, a company spokeswoman, said in a written statement. “We will vigorously defend against these false allegations.”Regulators and consumer groups have long complained about widespread abuses in the student loan market, but Wednesday’s coordinated state and federal action, which stems from investigations that began about three years ago, is a legal attack that is likely to resonate throughout the industry.Navient is accused of deliberately steering borrowers away from income-based repayment plans that could have lowered their loan costs — in order to maximize its own profits. Enrolling customers in such plans can be time-consuming and complex, and Navient’s compensation system for its customer service representatives encouraged them to push struggling customers toward other options, according to the bureau’s complaint.Derek Smith said he is one such borrower. In 2011, when his loan payments kicked in, he was living in a homeless shelter in Boston. He had no job and three children.Mr. Smith was exactly the kind of former student who should have had his payments reduced, according to Persis Yu, director of the Student Loan Borrower Assistance Project at the National Consumer Law Center. But that never happened, she said. After struggling for two years to make a dent on his loans, Mr. Smith defaulted and his wages from a new job were garnished. Collection calls poured in.“I was just at a standstill,” said Mr. Smith, whose debt has ballooned to more than $13,000.Navient declined to comment on Mr. Smith’s case, but said it was “a leader in enrolling eligible borrowers into income-driven repayment programs.”Sallie Mae, which was not named in the consumer bureau’s lawsuit, said in a statement that Navient had “accepted responsibility for all costs, expenses, losses and remediation” stemming from investigations into the company’s past lending practices.The bureau’s lawsuit does not estimate how much money individual borrowers have lost, which would vary widely from person to person. But it alleges that the scope of the problem is vast, and involves a long list of reckless mistakes and potentially willful violations.Navient “used shortcuts and deception to illegally cheat struggling borrowers out of their rights to lower payments,” Mr. Cordray said. “These unlawful practices have cost student loan borrowers across the country both heartache and money.”In one example, the agency accused Navient of marring the credit reports of injured military veterans.Borrowers with a “total and permanent” disability are eligible to have their federal student loans discharged. Navient improperly marked some of those charged-off loans as defaults, the bureau said, leaving those borrowers, including disabled soldiers, with black marks on their credit records that could have prevented them from obtaining mortgages and other loans.And officials said that Sallie Mae, which originated some loans that Navient inherited, made loans that were crafted to ensnare students in debt. These loans were “designed to fail,” Ms. Madigan said, and should be discharged.Student loan debt can haunt borrowers long after they graduate. In the past decade, the number of people 60 and older with student loans has quadrupled, according to a report in January by the consumer bureau. More than 2.8 million Americans over the age of 60 had student loan debt outstanding, up from 700,000 in 2005.This is not the first time in the spotlight for Navient or its subsidiaries. Consumer groups have long been raising alarms about the company and its practices.“The allegations in the complaint mirror the experiences of the dozens of borrowers that we have worked with,” said Ms. Yu at the National Consumer Law Center.The bureau’s lawsuit focuses on possible wrongdoing from 2010 onward. The state lawsuits stretch back further, as early as 2000, Ms. Madigan said.As far back as August 2015, Navient warned investors in a regulatory filing that it was under investigation by the consumer bureau and could face legal action.In 2014, the Justice Department and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, fined Navient for illegally overcharging military members. The company, officials found, flouted the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, a federal law that protects active duty military members, requiring lenders to reduce interest rates on any loans to 6 percent.One of Navient’s subsidiaries, Pioneer Credit Recovery, which was also named in the lawsuits announced Wednesday, previously collected on defaulted federal student debt, but the Education Department ended that arrangement two years ago because, it said, Pioneer made “materially inaccurate representations” to borrowers.Navient still holds a contract with the department to service federal student loans, which runs through 2019.
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan —  At least 22 people were killed and 50 wounded when a bomb tore through a marketplace in a Shiite town in northwestern Pakistan on Sunday, officials said.Hours later, Lashkar-e-Jhangvi, a banned Sunni extremist group, claimed responsibility for the attack in Parachinar, the capital of the Kurram tribal region, which is on the border with Afghanistan.“It is revenge for the crime of taking sides with Iran and Bashar al-Assad,” an unidentified spokesman for the group said in a message to local news media outlets, referring to the president of Syria, which is in the midst of a civil war. “We warn Shiite parents that unless they stop their children from participating in the war, they should be prepared for more attacks.”Hundreds of Pakistani Shiites are said to have been recruited by Iran in recent years to defend Mr. Assad’s government. They are part of a fighting unit known as the Zeinabiyoun, according to a report by Reuters.On Sunday, a large number of shoppers had thronged the Eidgah bazaar in Parachinar, where used winter clothing was being sold cheaply. The powerful explosion, apparently set off by remote-control, could be heard over a wide area and caused panic among the throngs of people, leading to a stampede.Security officials quickly reached the market and cordoned it off.The wounded were ferried to nearby hospitals, but many in critical condition were airlifted to the city of Kohat, about 90 miles away, rescue workers said.Parachinar has a history of sectarian violence, and Shiites, mostly belonging to the Turi tribe, have been repeatedly targeted by Sunni extremists and Taliban militants. The Kurram tribal region, where Sunni and Shiite Muslims are almost equally divided, also borders the North Waziristan tribal region, which has been the scene of a military offensive by the Pakistani military since last year.The military has claimed success in uprooting the Taliban network in North Waziristan and much of Pakistan, but attacks on the Shiite population and other religious minorities, like Christians and Ahmadis, have continued.“As a bastion of anti-Taliban resistance, Parachinar has been a target of terrorist attacks for years,” said Afrasiab Khattak, a former senator and a member of the Awami National Party.The town and its Shiite population have also proved to be a strategic barricade to the ambitions of the Taliban, and specifically the Haqqani network, one of the most effective and violent factions of the Taliban.American officials say that Haqqanis have been responsible for several of the most daring attacks inside Afghanistan in recent years, and accuse the Pakistani authorities of not making wholehearted efforts to stamp them out. Pakistani officials deny those assertions.“For Haqqanis, who have relocated to lower Kurram and Thall from North Waziristan, Turis constitute a hurdle” in their efforts to cross the so-called Durand Line for attacks in the Afghan provinces of Paktia, Khost and Nangarhar, Mr. Khattak said.
Super Bowl LI: Sunday, Feb. 5, 6:30 p.m. Eastern.TV: Fox, Joe Buck and Troy Aikman in the booth, Erin Andrews and Chris Myers on the sidelines.Location: NRG Stadium in Houston, the home of the Texans. The Super Bowl was also held there in 2004, and the Patriots won, beating the Panthers, 32-29, on Adam Vinatieri’s late field goal. The game is also remembered for the Janet Jackson-Justin Timberlake “wardrobe malfunction” at halftime.The Super Bowl was also played at Rice Stadium in Houston in 1974.Teams: New England Patriots (14-2 regular season) versus Atlanta Falcons (11-5). The Patriots are 4-4 in the big game, including a win two seasons ago. The Falcons are playing for only the second time in their history, having lost to the Broncos, 34-19, in 1999.Line: Patriots by 3. The over/under is 58½, the highest ever for a Super Bowl and a big jump from last year’s 43½.Quarterbacks: Statistically, the two best in the game this season. Tom Brady, 39, ranked second in adjusted yards per pass, Matt Ryan, 31, ranked first. Brady had the lowest interception rate in the league, just two in 432 passes. Ryan led in touchdown percentage, with 38 in 534 passes.Offensive weapons: The Pats’ top rusher is LeGarrette Blount, who led the league in running touchdowns. Brady’s favorite target was Julian Edelman.The Falcons’ top rusher was Devonta Freeman, and Ryan’s favorite target was Julio Jones, who was the only player this season with more than 100 receiving yards a game.Other stars: Linebacker Dont’a Hightower, safety Devin McCourty and special teamer Matthew Slater were all selected to the Pro Bowl for the Patriots. Center Alex Mack, linebacker Vic Beasley and kicker Matt Bryant made the team for the Falcons. Beasley led the league in sacks with 15½.Injuries: After playing eight games, Rob Gronkowski, the Patriots’ superstar tight end, was knocked out for the season with a herniated disk. Another tight end, Martellus Bennett, has ankle problems but is expected to play.For the Falcons, Jones has a sprained toe and Mack a sprained ankle, but both are likely to play.Offenses: Both teams have high-powered attacks, led by the Falcons, who ranked first in points, yards per play and yards per pass. The Patriots were third, fifth and third in those categories.Defenses: The Patriots ranked first in points surrendered, but the Falcons’ defense was not nearly as good, ranking a distant 27th.Coaches: Neither man got his start at a football power. The Patriots’ coach, Bill Belichick, played for Wesleyan and the Falcons’ Dan Quinn for Salisbury State. Belichick also played lacrosse and squash and Quinn threw the hammer.Belichick was fired after five years with the Browns, just as they were moving to Baltimore. He joined the Patriots in 2000 and has won four Super Bowls.After stints at William & Mary, V.M.I. and Hofstra, Quinn landed on the staff of the 49ers in 2001 and made it to the top job last season with the Falcons. He was the defensive coordinator of the Seahawks in their Super Bowl years of 2013 and 2014, making this his third Super Bowl in four years.Owners: Robert Kraft, the Patriots’ owner, got his start in sports ownership in the 1970s with the Boston Lobsters of World Team Tennis. The team folded a few years later. The Falcons’ owner, Arthur Blank, was one of the founders of Home Depot. At 74, he has been seen busting out dance moves after Falcons victories this year.Officials: Carl Cheffers will referee his first Super Bowl. According to Pro-Football-Reference, he called more penalties than average for six consecutive seasons before falling to average this last season.Cities: In addition to the Patriots’ four titles, in this century the Red Sox have won three World Series, and the Celtics and the Bruins have a title each. Atlanta, which has had baseball and football teams since 1966 and basketball since 1968, has just a single title, the 1995 World Series. Its hockey team, the Thrashers, made the playoffs once in 12 years, then moved to Winnipeg. An earlier hockey team, the Flames in the 1970s, were a little better, but never won a title before moving to Calgary.Coin toss: George Bush and Barbara Bush will participate. The Patriots will get to make the call. They always call heads.Entertainment: At halftime, Lady Gaga follows in the footsteps of Madonna, Bruce Springsteen, Prince and U2. Also the New Kids on the Block, Up With People and an impersonator-magician named Elvis Presto. No guest performers have been announced yet, though based on previous years there could be surprises. Before the game, Phillipa Soo, Renée Elise Goldsberry and Jasmine Cephas Jones, from the original cast of “Hamilton,” will perform “America the Beautiful.” Luke Bryan will sing the national anthem.Roman numerals: Last season, the league dropped a long tradition and made the game Super Bowl 50 rather than Super Bowl L. This year, Roman numerals are back. Enjoy Super Bowl LI!
Super Bowl LI: Sunday, Feb. 5, 6:30 p.m. Eastern.TV: Fox, Joe Buck and Troy Aikman in the booth, Erin Andrews and Chris Myers on the sidelines.Location: NRG Stadium in Houston, the home of the Texans. The Super Bowl was also held there in 2004, and the Patriots won, beating the Panthers, 32-29, on Adam Vinatieri’s late field goal. The game is also remembered for the Janet Jackson-Justin Timberlake “wardrobe malfunction” at halftime.The Super Bowl was also played at Rice Stadium in Houston in 1974.Teams: New England Patriots (14-2 regular season) versus Atlanta Falcons (11-5). The Patriots are 4-4 in the big game, including a win two seasons ago. The Falcons are playing for only the second time in their history, having lost to the Broncos, 34-19, in 1999.Line: Patriots by 3. The over/under is 58½, the highest ever for a Super Bowl and a big jump from last year’s 43½.Quarterbacks: Statistically, the two best in the game this season. Tom Brady, 39, ranked second in adjusted yards per pass, Matt Ryan, 31, ranked first. Brady had the lowest interception rate in the league, just two in 432 passes. Ryan led in touchdown percentage, with 38 in 534 passes.Offensive weapons: The Pats’ top rusher is LeGarrette Blount, who led the league in running touchdowns. Brady’s favorite target was Julian Edelman.The Falcons’ top rusher was Devonta Freeman, and Ryan’s favorite target was Julio Jones, who was the only player this season with more than 100 receiving yards a game.Other stars: Linebacker Dont’a Hightower, safety Devin McCourty and special teamer Matthew Slater were all selected to the Pro Bowl for the Patriots. Center Alex Mack, linebacker Vic Beasley and kicker Matt Bryant made the team for the Falcons. Beasley led the league in sacks with 15½.Injuries: After playing eight games, Rob Gronkowski, the Patriots’ superstar tight end, was knocked out for the season with a herniated disk. Another tight end, Martellus Bennett, has ankle problems but is expected to play.For the Falcons, Jones has a sprained toe and Mack a sprained ankle, but both are likely to play.Offenses: Both teams have high-powered attacks, led by the Falcons, who ranked first in points, yards per play and yards per pass. The Patriots were third, fifth and third in those categories.Defenses: The Patriots ranked first in points surrendered, but the Falcons’ defense was not nearly as good, ranking a distant 27th.Coaches: Neither man got his start at a football power. The Patriots’ coach, Bill Belichick, played for Wesleyan and the Falcons’ Dan Quinn for Salisbury State. Belichick also played lacrosse and squash and Quinn threw the hammer.Belichick was fired after five years with the Browns, just as they were moving to Baltimore. He joined the Patriots in 2000 and has won four Super Bowls.After stints at William & Mary, V.M.I. and Hofstra, Quinn landed on the staff of the 49ers in 2001 and made it to the top job last season with the Falcons. He was the defensive coordinator of the Seahawks in their Super Bowl years of 2013 and 2014, making this his third Super Bowl in four years.Owners: Robert Kraft, the Patriots’ owner, got his start in sports ownership in the 1970s with the Boston Lobsters of World Team Tennis. The team folded a few years later. The Falcons’ owner, Arthur Blank, was one of the founders of Home Depot. At 74, he has been seen busting out dance moves after Falcons victories this year.Officials: Carl Cheffers will referee his first Super Bowl. According to Pro-Football-Reference, he called more penalties than average for six consecutive seasons before falling to average this last season.Cities: In addition to the Patriots’ four titles, in this century the Red Sox have won three World Series, and the Celtics and the Bruins have a title each. Atlanta, which has had baseball and football teams since 1966 and basketball since 1968, has just a single title, the 1995 World Series. Its hockey team, the Thrashers, made the playoffs once in 12 years, then moved to Winnipeg. An earlier hockey team, the Flames in the 1970s, were a little better, but never won a title before moving to Calgary.Coin toss: The Patriots will get to make the call. They always call heads.Entertainment: At halftime, Lady Gaga follows in the footsteps of Madonna, Bruce Springsteen, Prince and U2. Also the New Kids on the Block, Up With People and an impersonator-magician named Elvis Presto. No guest performers have been announced yet, though based on previous years there could be surprises. Before the game, Phillipa Soo, Renée Elise Goldsberry and Jasmine Cephas Jones, from the original cast of “Hamilton,” will perform “America the Beautiful.” Luke Bryan will sing the national anthem.Roman numerals: Last season, the league dropped a long tradition and made the game Super Bowl 50 rather than Super Bowl L. This year, Roman numerals are back. Enjoy Super Bowl LI!
BEIJING —  One of China’s most prominent civil rights lawyers went on trial on Monday for seven online posts he made on a Twitter-like service, in the latest attempt by the Communist Party to silence political dissent and rein in activist lawyers who question official policies and actions.The trial of the lawyer, Pu Zhiqiang, 50, drew widespread condemnation, including from foreign governments that sent diplomats to the courthouse in central Beijing to try to observe the proceedings. Lawyers for Mr. Pu said he could be sentenced to eight years in prison if found guilty on two speech-related charges. Mr. Pu’s supporters say the case against him is purely political.No foreign officials or journalists were allowed into the courtroom on Monday morning, though Mr. Pu’s wife sat inside. The session began at 9 a.m. and lasted more than three hours.“It was smooth and regulated,” Mo Shaoping, a lawyer for Mr. Pu, said, adding that he expected the verdict to be delivered soon. In such cases, senior officials, not the judges, generally decide the verdict and sentence.Mr. Pu said that if his posts “hurt anyone, he would like to apologize,” Mr. Mo said. “He said he will face and accept whatever verdict the court might hand down, but he hoped this would be a verdict that would stand the test of history.”Mr. Pu is the most prominent rights lawyer to be arrested in a wave of detentions and imprisonments of legal practitioners, though President Xi Jinping and other Chinese leaders have repeatedly pledged to strengthen the rule of law.Lawyers say the arrests are the greatest assault on their profession in decades. Mr. Pu’s case has taken on symbolic significance, as an indication of Mr. Xi and the Communist Party’s growing intolerance for liberal political thought and their abiding need to control any channels for discussion of social ills.On Monday several diplomats, including one from the United States Embassy, were shoved by police officers, and journalists and protesters were also pushed away from the building of the Second Intermediate People’s Court of Beijing.The police stood in clusters around the courthouse, some taking videos of anyone who appeared to be a supporter of Mr. Pu. Many officers wore masks because of an intense spell of toxic air, the third in northern China in three weeks, and to hide their identities. Burly men in plainclothes wore thick winter jackets and yellow smiley face stickers on their chests, presumably so they could spot one another.“China has no human rights,” yelled one woman standing with a group of protesters. “Chinese police are thugs.” She held a banner that read, “Chinese dogs have rights, people don’t.”The American diplomat outside the courthouse, Dan Biers, read an embassy statement that called for Mr. Pu’s release and said: “We remain concerned that Pu Zhiqiang, a prominent Chinese defense lawyer, is being tried under vague charges of ‘inciting ethnic hatred’ and ‘picking quarrels and provoking trouble.’ Lawyers and civil society leaders such as Mr. Pu should not be subject to continuing repression, but should be allowed to contribute to the building of a prosperous and stable China.”Chinese Internet users lent their voices to the outcry. One person wrote, “Is it lawyer Pu standing trial today, or is it the authorities?”“Under Xi Jinping, our society has been regressing,” said Hu Jia, a rights activist who was imprisoned from December 2007 to June 2011 for his writings. “The authorities are doing this because they want people to feel that their fingers are loaded with a lot of weight when typing on the keyboard.”Mr. Pu is a striking figure in liberal intellectual circles in Beijing, a bearlike man who speaks plainly in a baritone voice; he counts Ai Weiwei, the dissident artist, and Murong Xuecun, the outspoken writer, among his close friends. Mr. Ai, detained and persecuted by Beijing officials, was also a client.Mr. Pu was detained in May 2014 after attending an informal gathering of political thinkers in a professor’s home in Beijing to commemorate the hundreds or thousands of people killed by the Chinese military during the 1989 pro-democracy movement. Mr. Pu was a graduate student when he participated in the protests in Tiananmen Square.He was held without charges for one year, during which his health began to suffer. Then, this May, prosecutors announced that they were indicting him. Mr. Pu’s lawyers said prosecutors were basing their case on posts by Mr. Pu on Weibo, the microblogging site, including ones in which Mr. Pu questioned the party’s repressive policies toward ethnic Uighurs in Xinjiang, a region of western China.More recently, Mr. Pu’s lawyers have pointed to seven posts that prosecutors are citing. Four are being used as evidence for the charge of “ethnic hatred,” and the other three for the charge of “picking quarrels,” according to a document attributed to the defense lawyers’ firm that is circulating online.In one post from March 2014, after deadly knife attacks by Uighurs on people in the Kunming train station, Mr. Pu wrote that “the murders are very sinful” and that “Xinjiang separatist forces made the terror attack.” But he also called on Wang Lequan, the former party chief of Xinjiang, to explain, “Why is this happening?”That May, Mr. Pu wrote, “If Xinjiang belongs to China, then don’t treat it as a colony.”The three posts used as evidence for the charge of “picking quarrels” include one in which he mocked China’s legislature and an advisory legislative committee. Mr. Pu singled out Shen Jilan, in her 80s, a legislator who has never voted “no” in 60 years of holding her seat, and Mao Xinyu, the grandson of Mao Zedong and an army general and member of the advisory body.In late 2013, China’s top legal bodies expanded the “picking quarrels” charge to include online comments. Since then, officials have used it in a wide range of cases, including ones against artists, poets and essayists.Late Monday morning, Sophie Richardson, the China director of Human Rights Watch, said in an email that the trial of Mr. Pu, along with the physical harassment of observers outside the courthouse, “suggests we have gone from a deteriorating environment to an all-out free fall.”The Foreign Correspondents’ Club of China denounced the violent acts by the police against journalists — one person was slammed to the ground — and the United States Embassy said, “We view with great concern any incidents in which diplomats are not accorded the protection and respect consistent with their status.”
WASHINGTON — President Trump plans to announce his nominee for the Supreme Court on Tuesday, moving to fill a seat held vacant for nearly a year by Senate Republicans and touching off what is expected to be a furious ideological showdown early in his administration.Mr. Trump scheduled a prime-time televised announcement from the White House for 8 p.m. to present his choice to a national audience, his first foray into the judicial wars that have consumed Washington for generations. At least some Senate Democrats were already preparing to block anyone he picks.The leading finalists were believed to be two federal appeals court judges with strong conservative records: Neil M. Gorsuch of the Denver-based 10th Circuit and Thomas M. Hardiman of the Third Circuit in Pittsburgh, according to Republicans close to the process. A third appeals court judge, William H. Pryor Jr. of the Atlanta-based 11th Circuit, has also been reported to be in the running.Any Supreme Court nomination would raise partisan tensions, but this one is coming when Washington is already on edge over the fast-paced, sharp-edged beginning of Mr. Trump’s presidency. In particular, the capital is polarized over Mr. Trump’s executive order temporarily shutting the nation’s borders to refugees worldwide and to any visitors from seven predominantly Muslim countries.The fight for this particular seat, vacated with the death of Justice Antonin Scalia last February, was already destined to generate acrimony because Republicans blocked President Barack Obama from filling it for 11 months. Democrats remain bitter that Republicans would not even hold a hearing for Mr. Obama’s nominee on the argument that it was too close to the election.Mr. Trump told a group of small-business owners at the White House on Monday that his nominee would be “a person who is unbelievably highly respected, and I think you will be very impressed with this person.”He had originally planned to make the announcement on Thursday, but moved it up two days after the weekend furor over his immigration order. Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Trump had moved it up not to change the subject but because “he was ready to go.”In making the announcement in prime time, Mr. Trump is following the example of former President George W. Bush, who presented his first Supreme Court nominee, John G. Roberts Jr., at a nighttime ceremony. Mr. Roberts was originally nominated for an associate justice seat and was later elevated to chief justice after the death of William H. Rehnquist.Both sides are already gearing up for a fight. Some Senate Democrats, still angry that Republicans prevented Mr. Obama from filling the seat, said they might filibuster Mr. Trump’s nominee, which would be historically unusual but not unprecedented.Breaking a filibuster would require Republicans, who hold 52 Senate seats, to win 60 votes. Liberal activists, who assume that Mr. Trump’s nominee will oppose legal abortion and gay rights and take other conservative positions, have been pressuring Democrats to filibuster rather than allow confirmation on a simple majority.“This is a stolen seat,” Senator Jeff Merkley of Oregon told Politico. “This is the first time a Senate majority has stolen a seat. We will use every lever in our power to stop this.”Speaking on NBC’s “Today,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said, “We’re not looking for payback.” But he added that the last four justices confirmed by the Senate had backing from both parties. “Will the president nominate someone who’s mainstream enough to get bipartisan support?” he asked.Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader — who prevented the Senate from considering Mr. Obama’s nomination of Merrick B. Garland, a federal appeals court judge — said lawmakers should now grant Mr. Trump’s nominee an up-or-down vote. “The Senate should respect the result of the election and treat this newly elected president’s nominee in the same way the nominees of other newly elected presidents have been treated,” he said on the floor.The Judicial Crisis Network, a conservative advocacy group, has said it will spend $10 million and deploy 60 surrogates to pressure Senate Democrats from states that Mr. Trump won to vote to confirm the nominee. It is targeting nine Democratic senators from states carried by Mr. Trump, like North Dakota, Montana, Missouri, Indiana and West Virginia.Leonard Leo Jr., a lawyer who has been advising Mr. Trump’s White House on the selection, said he was confident that the nominee would follow the same philosophy as Justice Scalia, who argued for interpreting the Constitution according to its text and original meaning.“At the core of Justice Scalia’s legacy is the idea that the Constitution ultimately rests power in the people, and that’s been a centerpiece of President Trump’s agenda,” Mr. Leo said. He said he anticipated “a nominee who shares and embraces that understanding.”
BEIJING — Holidays can be joyful times, bringing together long-separated family members. They can also be the most dreaded times for precisely that reason. Things may go horribly wrong under the weight of mutual expectations, and escape is difficult.In China, where an individual’s business is the family’s business, the questions are unremitting: “How much do you earn? Why don’t you have a better job? When will you marry? When will you have children? How did you get so fat?” Throughout the ordeal, the cornered victim must maintain at least the appearance of filial respect to his or her elders.But this year, a bit of relief is at hand for the millions of Chinese dashing home to celebrate the Lunar New Year, which begins Friday night, in the bosom of their family: a song, spreading fast online, performed by the Rainbow Chamber Singers in Shanghai. In Chinese, it’s titled “A Spring Festival Survival Guide.” (Chinese New Year is commonly called Spring Festival.)The video also carries the English title “What I Do Is For Your Own Good.” (Has anyone reading this not heard that line at least once?) The lyrics — English subtitles provided — and music are by Jin Chengzhi, who is also the choir’s conductor. The verve of its performance and its universal theme cry out for fuller treatment. How about a musical?Watch, enjoy and Happy Year of the Rooster!
QUEBEC — Alexandre Bissonnette, the alleged gunman who killed six and wounded eight at a Quebec City mosque on Sunday, was charged with six counts of first degree murder and five counts of attempted murder at the Quebec City Courthouse late on Monday afternoon, handcuffed and wearing a white jumpsuit but leaving a country wondering why.The shooting on Sunday, the first time someone had been killed in a mosque in Canada and, at least recently, a rare event outside the Muslim world, shocked a nation that has prided itself on openness and has been lauded for its welcoming acceptance of Syrian refugees. The shooting, however, underscored a growing anti-Muslim sentiment that has been particular virulent in some parts of this French-speaking corner of the country.“Canada took in roughly 30,000 Syrian refugees in a three month period —proportionate to the U.S. taking in 225,000 over that time,” said David B. Harris, a lawyer and a director at Insignis Strategic Research Inc., a counterterrorism consultancy. “These are dramatic developments in the life of any nation.”Mr. Bissonnette was well known to people who monitor far-right groups in Quebec, where he was a frequent commenter on sites speaking about immigration and Islam.The attack stunned Canada, where mass shootings are uncommon, and was condemned by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau as a “terrorist attack on Muslims.” The country has become known as a beacon for refugees fleeing warfare and terrorism in Muslim-majority nations.Muslim leaders from Quebec joined the province’s premier, Philippe Couillard, at a news conference on Monday morning. “We’re all Quebecers,” Mr. Couillard said. “All of us. Each one of us. We are a large nation, a large people, but we’re even more united today.”President Trump called Mr. Trudeau to express support. Pope Francis offered his condolences to Cardinal Gérald Cyprien LaCroix, the archbishop of Quebec, who was visiting Rome on Monday. Messages of solidarity poured in from the leaders of France and Germany; Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York; and a 7-year-old girl who recently fled Syria, among others.Mr. Bissonnette had a history of provocative views and antisocial behavior, according to a report in the Quebec newspaper La Presse. The newspaper quoted François Deschamps, an official with a refugee advocacy organization, as saying that Mr. Bissonette had make harassing comments against members of an online chat room.The organization, Bienvenue aux Refugiés, said in a Facebook post that Mr. Bissonnette had made remarks critical of feminists and foreigners, and that he had expressed sympathies online with the National Front, the far-right political party in France.The article quoted classmates of Mr. Bissonette as saying that he had been bullied and taunted at school, and was known for making insulting and offensive remarks.The authorities initially said that there were two suspects, but Quebec’s provincial police agency said on Monday that only one man was a suspect and that another man — arrested at the mosque on Sunday evening and identified as Mohamed Belkhadir — was only a witness. Mr. Belkhadir was released on Monday, as the authorities searched a house in the Cap-Rouge section of Quebec, where Mr. Bissonnette lived.“For the moment, nothing indicates to us that there was anybody else involved,” said Chief Inspector André Goulet of Quebec’s provincial police agency.Speaking after the news conference, which was also attended by several politicians, leaders of the mosque said that the suspect was not known to them.But they said the shooting had followed acts of harassment and bigotry that had led the mosque to install eight surveillance cameras. The acts ranged from hate mail to swastikas painted on its doors to a pig’s head left in front of the mosque last June.“We’ve had to be very, very vigilant, careful for our community,” said Boufeldga Benabdallah, a co-founder of the mosque.“Six of our brothers they were,” he said of those killed in the attack. “The prayed beside us, and they were shot in the back because they prayed.”Several of the mosque leaders said that the gunman appeared to have targeted people who were praying when he arrived.Mr. Benabdallah, however, said that Muslims in the area were surprised and comforted by the outpouring of support from the broader society.Mr. Couillard, the premier, said such solidarity should not just be something produced during difficult times.“It’s normal in times of crisis that everyone will speak the same voice of tolerance, integration and inclusion,” he told reporters. “The real challenge will be three weeks from now, to continue saying this.”Mr. Couillard declined to comment on the possibility that anti-Islamist remarks by Mr. Trump during the presidential campaign had played a role. But he did add: “We live in a world where people tend to divide themselves rather than unite. Our country, Canada and Quebec, has to remain a beacon of tolerance.”Of the five people still hospitalized on Monday, three were due to be released and two were being treated for serious injuries, according to Quebec City University Hospital.The authorities provided a timeline of their response to the attack.At 7:50 p.m. on Sunday, the police received calls from the mosque reporting that shots had been fired. They quickly arrived and realized that were there were numerous victims, and one person was arrested at the scene. At 8:10 p.m., a man called 911 asking to speak with investigators; officers arrived at an access road near the Île d’Orléans Bridge and arrested him.Two hours later, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police set up a national security task force, and security was increased at other mosques in the city and on the Laval University campus.On Twitter, Martin Coiteux, the provincial minister of public safety, said that “the police systems for dealing with terrorist acts have been activated” after the shooting. “Ensuring the safety of the population is our priority,” he wrote.The six men killed ranged in age from 39 to 60, said Inspector Martin Plante of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. They appeared to come from several countries.A woman in Tunisia, Amira Derbali, confirmed in a Facebook message that her brother Aymen Derbali had been wounded in the shooting. Mr. Derbali, 41, is a Canadian citizen and a father of three, his sister said.Another Tunisian, Bechir Thabti, wrote a Facebook post confirming the death of his brother, who he said left behind a wife, son and daughter. “We received the news of the death of our brother Boubaker Thabti in a cowardly attack in Canada,” Mr. Thabti wrote on Facebook. “We belong to him and to him we return.” (The death was also confirmed by the political party Ennahda, of which Boubaker Thabti was a member.)The attack came after Mr. Trudeau said that Canada stood ready to continue welcoming refugees from terrorism and war and as Mr. Trump’s executive order on immigration stranded people around the world and provoked condemnation that it was directed at Muslims.About 765,000 people live in the city of Quebec, and 6,760 of them identified themselves as Muslims during the last national census.Mr. Trudeau posted a message on Twitter on Saturday welcoming refugees to Canada and included a photograph of himself with a child under the hashtag #WelcomeToCanada. Since Mr. Trudeau took office in late 2015, the country has admitted nearly 40,000 refugees, many of them fleeing the war in Syria.Canada’s warm embrace of Syrian refugees has won the country accolades at home and abroad, but it is not without its domestic opponents. A survey in Ontario last summer found that while there was widespread support for accepting the refugees, only a third of respondents had a positive impression of Islam, and more than half felt that its mainstream doctrines promoted violence.Anti-Muslim episodes have been on the rise in Canada, with several minor incidents reported in Quebec during the past year.A Montreal mosque and a Sept-Îles Muslim community center were slightly damaged in separate arson attempts in December, and the head of the Association of Muslims and Arabs for a Secular Quebec received online death threats the month before.The increasing tension led a member of Parliament, Iqra Khalid, to put forward a motion in the national House of Commons in December calling on the government to condemn Islamophobia and request a study on how the government could combat the trend. The motion is expected to be voted on when the House returns to session this week.Vigils commemorating the attack victims were scheduled for Monday in Ottawa, the capital, and in the city of Quebec, Montreal, Trois-Rivières and Saguenay, all in the province of Quebec. The government also set up an online register for people to express their condolences.
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — One by one, a judge detailed the 22 charges against an Alaskan man accused of killing five people and wounding six others in a Florida airport shooting spree. Then the man, Esteban Santiago, pleaded not guilty.Mr. Santiago, 26, stood on Monday in chains wearing a red “max custody inmate” jumpsuit as a United States magistrate judge, Barry Seltzer, took the unusual step of reading the entire 17-page indictment aloud in court — with repeated emphasis on the victims’ names. After each count, Mr. Santiago said he understood, and when asked if he realized he could receive the death penalty if convicted, he replied, “Yes, I do.”Mr. Santiago, an Iraq war veteran who lived in Anchorage, was taken into custody shortly after investigators said he opened fire in a baggage claim area on Jan. 6 at Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport.He is being held without bail on charges of causing death or bodily harm at an international airport, causing death during a crime of violence and using a firearm during a crime of violence. His court-appointed lawyers declined to comment after the hearing.According to the F.B.I., Mr. Santiago flew on a one-way ticket from Alaska to Fort Lauderdale with a 9-millimeter Walther handgun and two ammunition clips in a case in checked luggage. The authorities have said he picked up the case, loaded the gun in a bathroom and came out firing randomly at other travelers.Mr. Santiago was arrested after firing 15 shots. The F.B.I. has said he told agents he carried out the shooting because of some form of government mind control, later saying he was inspired by videos and chat rooms linked to the Islamic State.The indictment contains no terrorism-related charges despite those claims.The F.B.I. previously said Mr. Santiago had visited its office in Anchorage last year complaining about hearing voices and supposed C.I.A. mind control, which led to the temporary seizure of his gun by the Anchorage police and his brief stay in a mental hospital.Records at the Alaska Psychiatric Institute show that Mr. Santiago was given anti-anxiety medications but no prescriptions for drugs that would have treated serious mental conditions such as schizophrenia. He was released after a five-day stay with no restrictions that might prevent him from possessing a gun, and his weapon was returned to him by the police. That same gun was used in the airport shooting.A trial date has not been set.
NEW HAVEN — Suspension of our disbelief is a natural element of attending theater. Those unhappy folks speaking English under an ornate proscenium are not really Russian aristocrats, after all. The dynamos pouring forth raps about American history are not really fomenting revolution.A theatergoer visiting New Haven this month would need to pack a bag pretty much stuffed with disbelief-suspension for the trip. The Long Wharf Theater is presenting Samuel Beckett’s “Endgame,” one of his seminal, bleakly comic but highly stylized dramatic emblems of the human predicament.And at Yale Repertory Theater you can see the premiere of “Imogen Says Nothing,” by Aditi Brennan Kapil, an ambitious but rather woolly-headed play featuring, among other oddities, a troupe of talking bears.Brian Dennehy stars in “Endgame,” playing the irascible Hamm, who presides over a bizarre human menagerie from his movable throne in a grimy bunker. With an unruly gray beard, Mr. Dennehy looks rather like a Santa Claus gone to seed, and Hamm does indeed take an almost jolly pleasure in harassing his servant, Clov, portrayed by Reg E. Cathey.Demanding to be moved an inch this way or that, or just demanding that Clov attend to his needs — Hamm is blind and immobile — he lords it over Clov, and is scarcely more respectful to his parents, Nagg (Joe Grifasi) and Nell (Lynn Cohen), who live enclosed in canvas garbage bins. From the small windows in their basement, Clov occasionally searches for signs of life but sees only a gray wasteland.Directed by Gordon Edelstein, the production is perhaps the best “Endgame” I’ve seen: sharp in its savage humor, attentive to the language, and increasingly unsettling as these gruesome figures, at first repellent and almost cartoonish, gnaw at our souls. As they squabble or reminisce, we see in them grotesque emblems of humanity in various states of decay, but still clinging to life, and to one another, because that is what humans do. Even as life becomes absurd and unendurable, it is endured.Mr. Cathey’s dead-eyed Clov shuffles around the stage, dutifully obeying Hamm’s commands, but he also contains a smoldering sense of resentment that threatens at any moment to flare into open rebellion. Despite his humiliatingly submissive stance, Mr. Cathey imbues Clov with a haunting dignity.Mr. Dennehy is terrific as the cantankerous Hamm. Although his eyes are obscured behind dark glasses, Hamm’s squirming, sudden changes of mood, from irritated to elegiac to abusive, arrive like small shock waves. And while he lords it over his petty kingdom with a preening arrogance, Hamm is, of course, as pathetically dependent on Clov as Clov is on him — ultimately more so — and thus he, too, invokes as much pity as horror. (It is vaguely hinted that their relationship goes beyond master and servant, and that Hamm is in fact Clov’s father or adoptive father.)The veteran actors Ms. Cohen and Mr. Grifasi are likewise superb. Ms. Cohen’s Nell has an ingratiating smile that’s heartbreaking; she seems perfectly content to subsist on the crumbs of attention tossed her way. She and Mr. Grifasi make clear how the embers of their love still glow, albeit ever more dimly. In their separate chambers, they offer a grim image of the ultimate isolation that will descend on us all.The enterprising Ms. Kapil, meanwhile, might take a few tips from Beckett’s notable economy (although “Endgame” is among his longer stage works). Her “Imogen Says Nothing” meanders across some mighty strange terrain, and ultimately fails to derive much meaning from the admittedly inventive strands of its story.The title character, played with fortitude and powerful presence by Ashlie Atkinson (“Fat Pig”), is a solidly built, lumbering woman who arrives in Elizabethan London on an odd mission. It seems the town she hails from has been arbitrarily renamed Quaere by a cartographer, confusing residents who had always referred to it as North Burcombe.Through some confusion she finds herself in conversation with two of Shakespeare’s actors, the dismissive John Heminges (Christopher Ryan Grant) and the more sympathetic Henry Condell (Hubert Point-Du Jour). They offer little help, but somehow Imogen finds herself falling in with the company.Women were not, of course, allowed to appear on stages in Elizabethan England, but Ms. Kapil latches on to a footnote in the history of “Much Ado About Nothing” to spin a fanciful tale suggesting that, on at least one occasion, this rule was broken. The back story: A character named Imogen, Leonato’s wife, is referred to only in a few stage directions in early versions of the text, but was later eliminated from it in others and is often cut from contemporary versions.“Imogen Says Nothing” puts forth the whimsical theory that, at the first performance, John, who was portraying Leonato, was so inebriated that Imogen was corralled into shepherding him around the stage so that he could say his lines without collapsing into a puddle, thus making her, in theory, the first woman to appear in a Shakespeare play.Nor does Ms. Kapil’s fertile imagination stop at revising Shakespearean history. Noting that bearbaiting was, like the theater of the time, a popular form of entertainment, she folds into her tale a troupe of bears who carp about their degrading lives from inside their cages.And, lo, in the play’s truly head-scratching twist, it turns out that Imogen herself was once a bear, who escaped from captivity and — presto! — somehow became human. When trying to urge her former fellow sufferers to escape as she did, she is once again captured by the impresario of the bearbaiting company (a commandingly malicious Ben Horner).While I’d grant Ms. Kapil full marks for invention, “Imogen Says Nothing” comes a little too close to saying nothing fully coherent itself. Buried in its layers is some sort of statement about the injustice of being erased from history. According to the play, Quaere, in Latin, means something missing or absent, and despite Shakespeare’s resistance, Imogen eventually has herself written into the First Folio, which Henry has dedicated himself to preparing. Lurking in the bearbaiting plot, too, is a lesson about the cruelty of man’s dominion over nature.But while the production, directed by Laurie Woolery, is acted with brio, humor and commitment by its ample cast, the play becomes bogged down in reams of unnecessary dialogue and wayward plotting. In this case, to enter into the world of the play, your ability to suspend disbelief would have to be stretched to the length of a suspension bridge. For this viewer, it was a bridge too far.
Syrian armed forces appear to have retaken the contested Barada Valley area north of Damascus, the capital’s main source of water, signaling a possible end to a war-induced shortage that has left millions of inhabitants thirsty and dirty for six weeks.Syrian government news media reported on Monday that hundreds of rebel fighters and their families had evacuated the Barada Valley, under an agreement reached on Sunday.The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an outside monitoring group, corroborated the government account, saying ambulances and buses had been seen taking evacuees to other rebel-held areas, and that government soldiers and allied militia fighters were in control.The Barada Valley agreement expanded areas of Syria adhering to a tenuous nationwide cease-fire negotiated by Russia, the Syrian government’s chief ally, and Turkey, which supports some rebel groups that have been fighting to oust President Bashar al-Assad.The agreement also further winnowed the amount of territory occupied by insurgents after their evacuation last month from eastern Aleppo, the northern Syrian city, after a lengthy siege.Russia and Turkey have since taken a far more active role in diplomacy aimed at ending the conflict, convening talks last week in Astana, Kazakhstan. Another round is tentatively scheduled for late February.It was not immediately clear how soon the re-establishment of government control in the Barada Valley would ease the severe water shortage in the Damascus area, where roughly 5.5 million people live.The main water-pumping facilities in the valley were damaged in fighting, slowing or stopping water flow since late December. Syrian officials were quoted in state news media on Sunday as saying they hoped to restore the flow soon.The government has tried to ease the water crisis by trucking supplies to communal collection points from wells around Damascus. The United Nations helped by overhauling 120 wells to meet about one-third of the city’s daily needs.Nonetheless, the shortage was acute for many residents of Damascus, which had largely been spared from the worst of the war that has ravaged the country for nearly six years.Word of the developments in Barada Valley came in recent days as rumors swirled about the health of Mr. Assad, 51, who has remained a relatively reclusive figure. The speculation, spread by some Arab news sites, suggested the Syrian leader may have suffered a stroke.The Syrian government called the rumors unfounded and said Mr. Assad has been working normally.As if to emphasize the denial, the official Syrian Arab News Agency reported that Mr. Assad had a friendly phone conversation on Monday with President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela, who shares Mr. Assad’s antipathy for what both regard as arrogant Western powers, particularly the United States. The news agency said Mr. Assad “appreciated Venezuela’s stances and President Maduro for supporting Syria.”
KABUL, Afghanistan — The Afghan government faces a peculiar problem in at least two major provinces: It provides precious electricity, some of it imported at costly rates from neighboring countries, but Taliban militants collect most of the bills.If the government cuts off power, it will further anger a population that is already disenchanted. If it does not, the revenue from the power will continue to provide more income to an already emboldened Taliban.The Taliban, fighting the Afghan government and a large international military coalition, have long tapped into Afghanistan’s lucrative drug trade and illegal mining, in addition to the streams of donations they receive from supporters abroad, mainly in the Persian Gulf states.But as they have taken over increasingly large areas in the past two years, they have found new ways of diversifying and collecting revenue, according to interviews with officials, Taliban commanders and local residents.The diversification of the revenue collection system, in the face of a central government largely dependent on Western donations and hobbled by corruption, has raised fears that the balance of the war could tilt even further in the year ahead, and that the insurgency is becoming more entrenched and acting as a shadow government in parts of the countryside.“What it suggests, essentially, is that the group is becoming more efficient in systematically taxing the areas they either control or have a lot of influence on,” said Timor Sharan, senior analyst for Afghanistan at the International Crisis Group, a research institute. “Efficiency of taxation is quite significant in terms of sustaining the group for a long time.”In addition to collecting electricity bills from thousands of homes in provinces such as Kunduz and Helmand, the insurgents levy taxes on potato harvests, flour mills, teachers’ salaries, marriage ceremonies, and fuel and vegetable trucks crossing their checkpoints.At the same time, the Taliban continue to pursue their original sources of funding. The United Nations, in a recent report, said narcotics, illegal mining and external donations remained major income streams, with the drug economy bringing in up to $400 million in 2016.But the United Nations report also spoke of the group’s diversification efforts.“Analysis of Taliban revenue sources suggests that they remain highly diverse, with various income streams that enable the Taliban to quickly substitute for declining asset streams,” the report said.Mr. Sharan said the increased revenue collection was largely due to a restructuring of the insurgency spearheaded by its former leader, Mullah Akhtar Muhammad Mansour, who was seen more as a businessman heavily involved in the drug trade than a conventional Taliban ideologue. Part of the reason for the change was an expected decline in external funding amid growing competition for resources from other militant groups like the Islamic State.“Mansour, in his restructuring, gave more autonomy to the local Taliban groups and tasked them with finding more locally driven revenues and securing their funding at the local level,” Mr. Sharan said.The Taliban have also been hit by a dwindling number of major NATO military contracts and development projects from which they could take a cut.Western and Afghan officials say the greater fund-raising autonomy for local commanders is also a consequence of chaos within the Taliban leadership and infighting over resources after an American drone strike killed Mullah Mansour in May.A Taliban spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahid, said the group relied on a variety of resources, including Islamic taxes and offerings from farmers and local residents, donations from traders abroad and from Islamic countries, and booty captured from Afghan forces. He acknowledged that in their areas of control in places like Kunduz and Helmand, the Taliban collected the electricity bills.“Our territory has expanded in some areas, and since our presence has increased there, our resources have also increased,” Mr. Mujahid said.At first glance, each strand of Taliban revenue might seem insignificant. But for an insurgency numbering about 30,000 men, who operate in small groups, it is a substantial sum.The head of the power department in Kunduz Province, Hamidullah, said the Taliban were collecting electricity payments from close to 14,000 homes in the province, possibly as much as $200,000 for every two-month cycle.Haji Ayoub, an elder from Boz Qandahari village, north of Kunduz city, said that two months ago, the Taliban had stopped government electricity workers and taken the bills they delivered by bicycle. Then, they started calling people to come to the local mosque and pay.Mr. Ayoub said he owed the government about $200, for electricity used at his home and a flour mill he ran before it went bankrupt.“The Taliban representative took the money,” Mr. Ayoub said. “He didn’t sign or stamp the bill. He just tore half of it and gave me back the other half and wrote something in his notebook.”He added, “I said, ‘At least put your signature on the bill so I can bring it to the government to show that I have paid,’ but he didn’t.”In Helmand Province, members of the provincial council said most of the territory was controlled by the Taliban, who collected bills in places they held where there was electricity.“We cannot switch off the electricity in Taliban areas, because then they create big problems for electrical poles along the way to cities like Kandahar and Lashkargah,” said Nasrullah Qani, the power department’s director in Helmand.Residents in Helmand said the collection of electricity charges differed by district. In Kajaki district, the Taliban collect a fee once a year, from $60 to $150 depending on usage. In other areas, it is monthly.“For each electric bulb you use, they charge you $2 a month,” said Haji Ziaudin, a shopkeeper in Musa Qala district.The Taliban have a multitude of ways to make money and to finance their local groups.In the northeastern province of Badakhshan, a study last year found that the Taliban made as much as $6 million a year from illegal lapis lazuli mining. Then, there are taxes: up to $20 a year on water mills in their areas of control, and from $40 to $70 a year from electric mills. And one sheep per every 40 owned by farmers.Just south of Kabul, the Taliban set up checkpoints, taxing vehicles transporting vegetables, according to residents. New York Times journalists saw copies of receipts the Taliban provided to drivers for vehicles they taxed.In the western province of Ghor, farmers described paying taxes in cash and kind. Abdul Qayoum, 47, a potato farmer in Pasaband district, said he paid taxes to the Taliban twice a season, and two months ago had handed over about 220 pounds of potatoes.“The reason we give tax to the Taliban is because we have to take our vegetables to the Dahane Jamal bazaar, which is the main market for us, and it is controlled by the Taliban,” Mr. Qayoum said.Sakhidad, 48, another resident of Pasaband, described how the Taliban had moved from an arbitrary system of collection, to a more ordered one enforced with strictness and fear.When the Taliban first took over the district three years ago, Mr. Sakhidad said in an interview last year, all those who had worked for the government had to pay a fine. Then, they imposed a regular 10 percent tax on harvests.Reached over the phone again recently, Mr. Sakhidad said that he continued to pay taxes to the Taliban and that he had given the new commander in the village $60 in taxes two months ago — a large sum for a farmer.But he said he was relieved that the former Taliban commander in his village, Mullah Gul Agha, had been replaced. In one of his final acts, he said, Mullah Gul Agha pulled out his pistol and shot and killed a man who had protested paying his taxes, saying he had already paid one of the commander’s associates, Mr. Sakhidad said.“They force people to pay the taxes — it is not voluntary.”
WASHINGTON — A flurry of actions by President Trump and Congress against the Affordable Care Act injected confusion and uncertainty into the final weeks of the annual period to sign up for coverage, and many, but not all, enrollment groups were reporting a drop in people seeking insurance as the deadline loomed on Tuesday.The actions include the executive order that Mr. Trump signed hours after his inauguration, directing federal agencies to take all possible steps to minimize the “burdens” the law imposes, and House and Senate votes to begin the process of repealing the law. The Trump administration also scaled back advertisements that encourage people to sign up for health insurance under the law, although after a public backlash late last week, the administration decided not to pull the ads altogether.Interviews with about two dozen enrollment counselors and insurance agents around the country suggested that in some states, including Alaska, New York and Washington, a steady flow of people were signing up until the last minute. Yet in many other places, counselors who help people sign up for insurance under the seven-year-old law said that enrollment had flattened in recent weeks and that the burst of activity they had come to expect at the end of open enrollment had never happened this year. All said their customers were worried about the future of their coverage and, in many cases, conflicted about whether to buy it for fear that they would soon lose it.“Some people ask, ‘What’s the point if the law is going to be repealed?’” said Emily Black Bremer, an insurance agent in Clayton, Mo., outside St. Louis. “Should they rush to get in before the A.C.A. is cut off? Should they give up because it’s all going away? It’s a tricky situation.”The number of people who signed up for or renewed coverage during this fourth enrollment period will be an important sign of whether the individual insurance market will remain stable over the coming months as Republicans work to repeal the law and try to come to a consensus on what to replace it with. A larger pool of enrollees is more likely to include healthier people whose premiums can help pay for the care provided to those who are sick.Over the last few weeks, Mr. Trump has promised to replace the law with better, cheaper coverage “for everybody,” while Republicans in Congress have struggled to come up with a plan that could come close to meeting the president’s goals and have expressed growing alarm at Mr. Trump’s demand for speed. Public polls have also shown growing support for the existing law.As of Jan. 14, the last time that the Obama administration released data, about 8.8 million people had signed up for coverage through HealthCare.gov, the federal insurance marketplace serving 39 states. (The other states run their own marketplaces.) That is about 100,000 more people than were enrolled at the same point last year.The sign-up period started on Nov. 1, just before the election, and many enrollment counselors said they saw many people seeking coverage through Dec. 15, the deadline to buy it for January. In fact, the Obama administration said in December that more people — 670,000 — enrolled on Dec. 15 than on any other day since the marketplaces opened for business in 2013.“We had a spike of interest that lasted through December,” said Karen Egozi, the chief executive of the Epilepsy Foundation of Florida, one of several dozen nonprofit groups that won federal grants to help people sign up for insurance through the federal marketplace. “But January came, and we’ve had a huge drop. We are seeing a major slowdown.”Ms. Egozi said her group had completed 64 percent fewer enrollments from Jan. 1 to Jan. 29 than over the period last year. According to federal enrollment data, more than 1.6 million people in Florida had enrolled in private health plans through HealthCare.gov from Nov. 1 to Jan. 14.Allen Gjersvig, the director of navigator and enrollment services at the Arizona Alliance for Community Health Centers, said a number of appointments with enrollment counselors had been canceled after Mr. Trump signed the executive order regarding the health law. A few people, he said, told counselors that they thought the law’s tax penalty for going without insurance would no longer be enforced.“When we called the folks and said nothing has changed yet,” Mr. Gjersvig said, “some decided to come in after all. But others said, ‘Nope, it’s just a matter of time before this law goes away.’”The slowdown was not universal. In Alaska, Jessie Menkens, who oversees a widespread enrollment effort through her job at the Alaska Primary Care Association, said, “We were bracing for diminished participation, but it’s been the opposite.” In New York, Donna Frescatore, the executive director of the state’s insurance marketplace, said it had seen “unprecedented volume,” including a surge of enrollments over the last few weeks.And in Texas, enrollment counselors at the Community Council of Greater Dallas have met with 60 percent more people than last year, said Sonia White, the group’s director of coalitions and planning.“It’s been by far our busiest open enrollment period,” said Ms. White, adding that the group had met with 1,200 people since the inauguration and 110 on Monday alone. On the other hand, she added, two groups that contract with hers to enroll people in rural Texas counties have reported a drop-off in interest this month.“They are both in pretty significantly conservative areas,” Ms. White said.Confusion, though, has prevailed, with Mr. Trump often repeating his pledge to repeal the law and a handful of Republicans proposing complicated replacement plans, none of which would most likely cover as many people.“People are asking, ‘Is my coverage only good for this month?’” said Shelli Quenga, whose nonprofit group, Palmetto Project, has a federal grant to help with enrollment in South Carolina.Antoinette Kraus, director of the Pennsylvania Health Access Network, said, “When the headline is ‘Repeal Moving Forward,’ people just panic and assume, ‘Oh my God, I just lost my health coverage.’”Kevin J. Counihan, the former chief executive of the federal marketplace, said that its call center had received tens of thousands of calls from worried consumers in the weeks before Mr. Obama left office. Among the callers, he said, were people worried that they would not be able to receive treatment for pre-existing conditions and parents worried that their children would lose coverage.Dee Porter, chief executive of the Oklahoma Primary Care Association, which won a federal grant to help with enrollment, said that some Oklahomans, including a woman facing a year and a half of expensive treatment for cancer, were “uncertain about starting medications or therapies that require more than a few months of treatment.”As of late December, enrollments in Oklahoma were up 6 percent compared with last year, according to data from the Obama administration. But while enrollment counselors continued to see “strong interest” over the final week of open enrollment, said Steve Goldman, the primary care association’s lead navigator, many consumers held back.“Insurance is supposed to bring folks certainty and peace of mind,” he said. “But now insurance is a big question mark.”
The tale of the Tasmanian tiger was tragic. Once numerous across Tasmania, the doglike marsupial was branded a sheep killer by colonists in the 1830s and hunted to extinction. The last of its kind, Benjamin, died in a zoo in 1936, and with it many secrets into the animals’ lives were lost.The striped creature, which is also known as the thylacine, was hardly studied when it was alive, depriving scientists of understanding the behavior of an important predator from Australia’s recent biological past. Now, for the first time, researchers have performed neural scans on the extinct carnivore’s brain, revealing insights that had been lost since the species went extinct.“Part of the myth about them is what exactly did they eat, how did they hunt and were they social?” said Dr. Gregory Berns, a neuroscientist at Emory University and lead author on the study, which was published Wednesday in the journal PLOS One. “These are questions nobody really knows the answers to.”Dr. Berns’s main research pertains to dogs and the inner workings of the canine brain, but after learning more about Tasmanian tigers, he became fascinated by the beasts.With their slender bodies, long snouts and sharp teeth, Tasmanian tigers looked as if they could be related to dogs, wolves or coyotes. But actually they are separated by more than 150 million years of evolution. It is a classic example of convergent evolution, in which two organisms that are not closely related develop similar features because of the environment they adapted to and the ecological role they played.To better understand thylacines, Dr. Berns spent two years tracking down two preserved Tasmanian tiger brains, one at the Smithsonian Institution and the other at the Australian Museum. Their brains, like those of all marsupials, are very different from the brains of placental mammals. The biggest difference is that they lack a corpus callosum, which is the part of the brain that connects the left and right hemispheres.Because of the differences, Dr. Berns said, if he wanted to make any sense out of the Tasmanian tiger brain, he could not compare it with one of his dog brain scans. Instead, he needed to analyze it against something much more similar.“That’s where the devil comes into the picture,” Dr. Berns said.The Tasmanian devil, a carnivorous marsupial that mostly scavenges for food, is one of the Tasmanian tiger’s closest living relatives. Dr. Berns collected two Tasmanian devil brains, scanned them and compared them with the two Tasmanian tiger brains.For the brain scans, he used magnetic resonance imaging to study the gray matter, and diffusion tensor imaging to study the white matter. From the scans Dr. Berns found that Tasmanian tigers had a larger brain, particularly the frontal lobes.The differences suggested that Tasmanian tigers were smarter than Tasmanian devils and used their cortex more for planning and decision-making, Dr. Berns said. That, he said, further supported the idea that Tasmanian tigers were avid hunters, rather than scavengers like Tasmanian devils.Leah Krubitzer, a neuroscientist from the University of California, Davis, who was not involved in the study, called the work a “heroic effort” for scanning brains of the extinct animal.“The authors cleverly used the best available techniques to examine brain organization in nonliving brains that were in not very good condition,” she said.And Dr. Berns said his research could change our understanding of these extinct Australian predators.“Go back 100 years, people dismissed thylacines as stupid animals because they weren’t fast moving,” he said. He added that what he could see of the Tasmanian tigers’ brains revealed that “they were probably quite intelligent.”
PHILADELPHIA — President Trump’s decision to build a wall along the length of the United States’ southern border with Mexico erupted into a diplomatic standoff on Thursday, leading to the cancellation of a White House visit by Mexico’s president and sharply rising tensions over who would pay for the wall.With the conflict escalating, Mr. Trump appeared to embrace a proposal by House Republicans that would impose a 20 percent tax on all imported goods. The White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, told reporters that the proceeds would be used to pay for the border wall, estimated to cost as much as $20 billion.But a furious uproar prompted Mr. Spicer to temper his earlier remarks, saying the plan was simply “one idea” that might work to finance the wall. Mr. Spicer said it was not the job of the White House to “roll something out” on tax policy, while Mr. Trump’s chief of staff, Reince Priebus, said the administration was considering “a buffet of options.”If Mr. Trump does eventually announce his support for the tax plan, it could have a broad impact on the American economy, and its consumers and workers, by sharply increasing the prices of imported goods or reducing profits for the companies that produce them. Other nations could retaliate, prompting a trade war that could hit consumers around the globe.Retail businesses could see their tax bills surge, said David French of the National Retail Federation, who predicted that those costs would be passed on to consumers. He called the idea “very counter to the way consumers are feeling at the moment.”If nothing else, the rapid-fire developments showed Mr. Trump that international diplomacy and a top-to-bottom overhaul of the tax code would not be as easy as an announcement before a campaign microphone. The events unfolded after Mr. Trump signed an executive order on Wednesday to strengthen the nation’s deportation force and start construction on a new wall along the border.Adding to Mexico’s perception of an insult was the timing of the order: It came on the first day of talks between top Mexican officials and their counterparts in Washington, and just days before a scheduled meeting between Mr. Trump and the Mexican president, Enrique Peña Nieto.The sense of chaos and confusion about the tax issue added to the fallout from Mr. Trump’s conflict with Mr. Peña Nieto, his first direct clash with a world leader since becoming president a week ago. The Mexican peso bounced sharply with each new development.Tensions between the two have been simmering for months, despite comments by both men that they were trying to work together. Mr. Trump’s immigration and border-wall decisions on Wednesday appeared to shatter the remaining good will between them.In a video message delivered on Twitter on Wednesday night, Mr. Peña Nieto reiterated his commitment to protect the interests of Mexico and the Mexican people, and pledged to devote the resources of Mexico’s consulates in the United States to protecting its citizens.“I regret and condemn the United States’ decision to continue with the construction of a wall that, for years now, far from uniting us, divides us,” Mr. Peña Nieto said.Mr. Trump responded on Twitter, “If Mexico is unwilling to pay for the badly needed wall, then it would be better to cancel the upcoming meeting.”Within hours, that is just what happened. Blasting Mr. Trump for sowing division between the countries, Mr. Peña Nieto angrily backed out of the White House meeting, which had been scheduled for next week.In remarks at congressional Republicans’ retreat in Philadelphia, Mr. Trump portrayed the decision to cancel the meeting as his own and issued a stern warning to Mr. Peña Nieto about the consequences of refusing to cooperate with him on financing the wall.“Unless Mexico is going to treat the United States fairly, with respect, such a meeting would be fruitless, and I want to go a different route,” Mr. Trump said. “We have no choice.”In the same remarks, Mr. Trump alluded to the idea of a border tax, saying, “We’re working on a tax reform bill that will reduce our trade deficits, increase American exports, and will generate revenue from Mexico that will pay for the wall if we decide to go that route.”After the speech, in a brief, impromptu news conference as Mr. Trump flew back to Washington, Mr. Spicer told reporters that the president now favored the plan to impose a 20 percent border tax as part of a sweeping overhaul of corporate taxation. Only last week, Mr. Trump had dismissed the tax as too complicated, favoring his own plan to impose a 35 percent tariff on manufactured goods made by American corporations in overseas factories.Mr. Spicer said that the plan for the tax was “taking shape” and that it was “really going to provide the funding” for the wall.Mr. Spicer said that was a direct reference to the centerpiece of House Republicans’ proposal to overhaul the tax code. They have been pushing the idea for months, but with little evidence, until Thursday, that Mr. Trump was interested in it.But by the time Mr. Spicer returned to the White House two hours later, he had already recanted. In another hastily arranged conversation with reporters, he called the proposal “one idea” that might work and said it was not the job of the White House to “roll something out” on tax policy.“We’ve been asked over and over again: ‘How could you possibly do this? There’s no way that Mexico will pay for it,’ ” Mr. Spicer said. “Here’s one way. Boom. Done. We could go in another direction. We could talk about tariffs. We could talk about other custom user fees. There are a hundred other things.”The White House and House Republicans have been hashing out their respective tax proposals as they press forward with Mr. Trump’s agenda to revive American manufacturing and increase exports.The House proposal would replace the current system of corporate taxation with one that more closely resembles the approach taken by many other developed nations. The government would impose a 20 percent tax on corporate income earned in the United States, which would have the effect of taxing imports while exempting exports.The approach, known as border adjustment, creates the appearance of taxing trade deficits. The goods that the United States imported from Mexico in 2015 were worth about $60 billion more than the goods it exported to Mexico, so federal revenue in the short term would increase by roughly $12 billion.But the House plan would offset that revenue by reducing the 35 percent corporate income tax rate, and would thus generate no new federal revenue over all. It was unclear how that fit with Mr. Spicer’s repeated contention Thursday afternoon that revenue from the tax adjustment would help finance construction of the border wall.By siphoning off that revenue, Mr. Trump would make it impossible to reduce the tax rate as far as Republicans wish. He is pressing for a 15 percent corporate tax rate.Moreover, the tax would not be paid by Mexico. It would be paid by companies selling Mexican goods in the United States. Some might raise prices, imposing the cost on consumers, while others might be forced by competitive pressures to absorb the tax, reducing their profits. Many economists also doubt that the change would end up penalizing imports or encouraging exports. They predict that the value of the dollar would rise, offsetting those effects.Nonetheless, many businesses in industries such as retail and energy, which rely heavily on imports, were in a panic.Representative Kevin Brady, the Texas Republican who wrote the plan, told Fox News on Thursday afternoon that he was pleased that Mr. Trump appeared to be on board with it after his appearance in Philadelphia.“What I heard today from this president was that in tax reform, that they would level the playing field for imports around the world and level it with the U.S. products here in America at the exact same rate,” Mr. Brady said.
SEATTLE — Technology executives have for days assailed President Trump’s executive order suspending immigration from seven mostly Muslim countries, framing their arguments largely in moral terms.On Monday, two tech companies — Amazon and Expedia — stepped up their opposition to the order with filings that were part of a lawsuit in federal court against the Trump administration, arguing that the order will hurt their businesses.The filings represent an escalation of the technology industry’s efforts to push back on the order signed by Mr. Trump on Friday night. There was little sign of the outcry over the order diminishing throughout the industry, as employees at Google staged demonstrations in the San Francisco Bay Area and beyond.Amazon and Expedia made declarations supporting a lawsuit filed against the Trump administration in federal court Monday night in Seattle by Washington State’s attorney general. The lawsuit, part of a growing wave of legal challenges to the immigration ban across the country, asked the court to declare key parts of the executive order unconstitutional.Expedia argued that the executive order hurt its ability to recruit employees from overseas, and it also could undermine the core of the company’s business as an internet travel company.“Expedia believes that the executive order jeopardizes its corporate mission and could have a detrimental impact on its business and employees, as well as the broader U.S. and global travel and tourism industry,” Robert Dzielak, the company’s general counsel, wrote in the filing.As of Sunday, at least a thousand Expedia customers with passports from one of the seven countries, which includes Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen, have made travel plans that involve flights to, from or through the United States.Dara Khosrowshahi, Expedia’s chief executive, was born in Iran and fled the country with his parents after the Iranian revolution in 1978. “The president’s order represents the worst of his proclivity toward rash action versus thoughtfulness,” Mr. Khosrowshahi said in a statement. “Ours is a nation of immigrants. These are our roots, this is our soul. All erased with the stroke of a pen.”Amazon said it was aware of 49 employees out of its United States work force of 180,000 who are from one of the countries identified in the executive order, nearly all of whom hold citizenship in another country.Seven job candidates, all of them originally from Iran but citizens of other countries, have received employment offers from Amazon. The company is considering jobs for the candidates in other countries.In an email to Amazon employees, the chief executive, Jeff Bezos, said the company had expressed its opposition to the order to senior administration officials and congressional leaders. He said the company was exploring “other legal options as well.”“For tech leaders, it’s a work force issue,” said Michael Schutzler, the chief executive of the Washington Technology Industry Association, a trade group representing the state’s technology companies. “We have a huge shortage of talent. We create jobs 10 times faster than the state can produce talent. Reducing our ability to recruit talent to the state essentially concedes the field to our international competitors.”Technology companies are bracing for another executive order, expected to be signed by Mr. Trump soon, that could affect them further with changes to the system for issuing visas to foreign workers. Technology companies are big users of H-1Bs and other forms of visas for hiring engineers from overseas.At Google’s headquarters in Mountain View, Calif., hundreds of employees crowded into a quad near the main cafeteria to protest the order. Employees carried signs like “Trump, Don’t Be Evil” and “Silicon Valley: Built by Immigrants,” while others chanted “No Ban, No Wall” into a megaphone.It was a scene more fitting for a college campus than a gathering of employees at one of America’s most valuable companies. Google offices in other cities like Seattle, San Francisco and New York held similar rallies. Sundar Pichai, Google’s chief executive, told employees at the rally that immigration was “core to the founding of this company.”When the Google co-founder Sergey Brin, who attended the protests at the San Francisco airport on Saturday, was introduced, the crowd broke into chants of “Sergey, Sergey, Sergey.” Mr. Brin noted that he came to the United States as a 6-year-old refugee from the Soviet Union when nuclear tensions between the two countries were at their peak.“Even then, the U.S. had the courage to take me and my family in as refugees,” he said.“I wouldn’t be where I am today or have any kind of life I have today if this wasn’t a great country that stood up and spoke for liberty,” Mr. Brin added.Soufi Esmaeilzadeh, a Google product manager who is an Iranian national with Canadian citizenship who resides in the United States with a green card, said that Google’s immigration team initially recommended that she not return home from a business trip in Switzerland after the order was signed on Friday.“My life is in the U.S. I felt angry, scared, and honestly rejected,” she said. “I don’t feel free or at peace.”But after the stay won by the American Civil Liberties Union, Google told her that she might have a small window to return but needed to leave immediately. Flying through Dublin, she said four immigration officers pored over her paperwork. She eventually arrived in San Francisco on Sunday.
ROME — It began as a fight over staffing. Then came a dispute about condoms, followed by papal concerns about Freemasons. Now it has become a full-scale proxy war between Pope Francis and the Vatican traditionalists who oppose him, with the battleground being a Renaissance palace flanked by Jimmy Choo and Hermès storefronts on Via dei Condotti, Rome’s most exclusive street.The palace is the headquarters of the Knights of Malta, the medieval Roman Catholic order. For months, an ugly, if quiet, spat over staffing simmered behind the order’s walls before spilling across the Tiber River to the Vatican, setting off a back-and-forth between the two camps. Francis and his lieutenants sent angry letters. The Knights ignored them, claiming sovereignty.This past week, the dispute finally blew up. Fed up, Francis took the extraordinary steps of demanding the resignation of the order’s leader — a decision the Knights officially accepted Saturday — and announcing that a papal delegate would step in.Conservatives promptly denounced what they called an illegal annexation and ideological purging by a power-obsessed pontiff, while liberal observers saw the whole episode as resulting from an act of subterfuge by the pope’s most public critic within the Vatican hierarchy, the American cardinal Raymond Burke.A seemingly obscure intra-Catholic squabble had erupted into an unexpected shock to the church with ideological fault lines running to the top of the Vatican.“The Vatican is a thing built of tradition,” said John Thavis, the author of “The Vatican Diaries” and a veteran church analyst, “and once those traditional parts start feuding with each other, that is a dangerous sign.”Francis remains one of the world’s most popular figures, but the spat with the Knights is a small indicator of how the political tensions rippling across the globe are alive in the Vatican, too. Only a year ago, Francis’ calls to fight climate change and help migrants seemed to place him in the lead of a progressive global vanguard, in keeping with his push for a more welcoming church.Now, suddenly, he is more politically isolated. The election of President Trump and the rise of far-right populists in Europe have ushered in an angrier era — and emboldened traditionalists inside the Vatican who sense that the once-impregnable pope could be vulnerable.The Knights of Malta is a bastion of Catholic tradition. Founded in the 11th century by Amalfian merchants to help Christian pilgrims in the Holy Land, it later became a military force, defending the faith during the Crusades and eventually holding off the armies of the Ottoman Empire from its fortress in Malta. The group, now with a wealthy and aristocratic membership of elite Catholics who parade in ornate raiment, has more recently specialized in aiding refugees and the poor in more than 100 countries.Until this past week, the order was led by the conservative and elaborately titled His Most Eminent Highness the Prince and Grand Master of the Order of Malta, Matthew Festing of Britain, a former Sotheby’s representative who had taken a monastic oath.Long-building tensions between Mr. Festing and the order’s Grand Chancellor Albrecht von Boeselager of Germany, whose father participated in a plot to assassinate Adolf Hitler, escalated in recent months amid accusations that Mr. Boeselager had knowingly overseen the distribution of condoms as head of the order’s charitable arm. Into this volatile situation stepped Cardinal Burke.In 2014, Francis had demoted Cardinal Burke, a leader of the church’s traditionalist movement, from his position on the Vatican’s Supreme Court. The cardinal’s supporters say Francis did this because of Cardinal Burke’s opposition to the pope’s tentative opening to the possibility of allowing divorced Catholics to receive communion.Cardinal Burke’s exile was at least a cushy one, as the pope named him as the Knights’ patron and liaison to the Vatican, where he would be out of the way.But the soft-spoken cardinal has made his presence felt.During the summer, as tensions mounted inside the order, Michael Hichborn, the president of the Lepanto Institute, a conservative Catholic organization in Virginia, conducted what he called a “short investigation” into the order’s international aid arm, which Mr. Boeselager oversaw.Mr. Hichborn said he had discovered that the aid organization was promoting the use of condoms and other contraceptives in Africa and Myanmar, a violation of church rules.“As I was digging around I thought, ‘Well, Cardinal Burke ought to know about this,’” Mr. Hichborn said in an interview.In November, he sent a summary to Cardinal Burke’s office and said he was told that the cardinal “would be working on something” regarding the information.A few days later, Cardinal Burke relayed his concerns about Mr. Boeselager to Francis. According to supporters of the cardinal, the pope then instructed him to root out from the order elements of Freemasonry, Vatican shorthand for adherents of a secular moral view. But other people familiar with the events inside the order said the pope had also urged Cardinal Burke and the order’s leadership to settle the dispute through dialogue.Instead, Mr. Festing and Cardinal Burke met Mr. Boeselager on Dec. 6 and requested his resignation, claiming, Mr. Boeselager said in a statement, “that this was in accordance with the wishes of the Holy See.”Mr. Boeselager denied knowing about the condom distribution program and considered the move a coup and an attempt to tarnish him as a “liberal Catholic.” He argued that once he had discovered the program, he had informed the Vatican and it ended.He also refused to leave, setting off a disciplinary procedure that led to his suspension, and reached out to the Vatican for confirmation that the pope desired his removal. Mr. Boeselager declined to comment for this article.Francis was apparently not pleased about the firing and did not want the dispute to spill into the public, which it did when The Tablet, a Catholic publication in England, broke the news.The pope was already critical of the ornate dress favored by the Knights (red military jacket and gold epaulets) and by Cardinal Burke (a long train of billowing red silk known as a cappa magna). Francis also had a history of run-ins with the Knights during his time as a cardinal in Argentina.So on Dec. 21, Francis wrote directly to Mr. Festing, conveying his decisions on what he called the “painful circumstances” and making clear that those decisions had “value, regardless of anything else to the contrary.” Attached to his letter, signed simply “Francesco,” were more letters from his second-highest-ranking official, Secretary of State Pietro Parolin, stating that “His Holiness asked for dialogue as the way to confront and resolve eventual problems” and that “he never spoke, instead, of kicking someone out!”Cardinal Parolin also wrote that the firing “not be attributed to the will of the pope.” Critically, he noted that the Knights, because of the group’s status as a lay religious order, fell under the pope’s authority, and that the pope had formed a commission to investigate the firing of Mr. Boeselager. But Mr. Festing refused to comply with the papal commission, citing the order’s status as a sovereign entity and raising questions about the integrity of a commission full of Mr. Boeselager’s allies.“I think maybe he was getting bad advice” from Cardinal Burke, said one senior Vatican official, who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to speak by the Vatican. (Cardinal Burke and Mr. Festing declined to comment.)Others say Mr. Festing hardly needed to be egged on by Cardinal Burke, and note that despite having no territory, the order is, in fact, sovereign, issuing its own passports and stamps and conducting diplomatic missions.Either way, the Vatican was not thrilled. On Jan. 17, it issued an unusually tough statement supporting the commission and rejecting “any attempt to discredit these members of the group and their work.” The commission ultimately ruled that the pope did have authority over the Knights of Malta.On Tuesday, he exercised it. He called Mr. Festing to the Vatican and asked for him to step down, a move the Vatican announced the next day. The order followed with its own statement, saying Mr. Festing’s resignation would become official once the order’s counselors met on Via dei Condotti to formally accept it. On Saturday, they did just that, immediately reinstating Mr. Boeselager and promising to collaborate with the pope’s delegate.This delighted the pope’s supporters, who said it showed that conniving conservatives would not push him around.But supporters of Mr. Festing were horrified by the Vatican’s de facto takeover. Supporters of Cardinal Burke complained that the pope, for all his talk of fostering debate, was intolerant of opposing views, especially more orthodox ones.“It sends a message to the rest of the Catholic world that if you try to stand for orthodoxy in the church, you are going to be sent away,” Mr. Hichborn said. “And the people pushing for heterodoxy will be put in power.”What was not up for debate was that, in the Vatican, Francis gets his way.At the order’s headquarters, a stately wooden mailbox hangs on the doorman’s wall. The three top slots are reserved for the order’s top three officials. On Wednesday morning, Mr. Boeselager’s name had been erased. Mr. Festing’s would soon be gone.The third slot belonged to the order’s interim leader, Grand Commander Ludwig Hoffmann von Rumerstein. But only, a Vatican statement made clear, “pending the appointment of the papal delegate.”
Just off a freeway in Southern California, 396 refrigerator-size stacks of Tesla batteries, encased in white metal, have been hastily erected with a new mission: to suck up electricity from the grid during the day and feed it back into the system as needed, especially in the evening.The installation, capable of powering roughly 15,000 homes over four hours, is part of an emergency response to projected energy shortages stemming from a huge leak at a natural gas storage facility.The project, which officially comes online on Monday, is an important and surprising demonstration of how utilities can use enormous collections of batteries in place of conventional power plants.It is also an indication of how rapidly Tesla is moving to transform itself from a luxury electric carmaker into a multifaceted clean energy company.“I had relatively limited expectations for the battery industry in advance of 2020. I thought that it would not really accelerate and begin to penetrate the electric grid or the transportation world for a while to come,” said Michael J. Picker, president of the California Public Utilities Commission. “Once again, technology is clearly moving faster than we can regulate.”Manufactured, shipped, installed and readied for operation in roughly three months, the batteries are connected to distribution circuits at Southern California Edison’s Mira Loma substation in an industrial section of Ontario, about 40 miles east of Los Angeles.Tesla has developed or won contracts for similar installations elsewhere in California, as well as in a handful of other American states and overseas. And although the company had been importing some components, it is now making and putting together all of the major parts of each battery assemblage, called the Powerpack, at its Gigafactory outside Sparks, Nev.“Essentially, we can go and pour a slab and install the basic wiring, but each one of our Powerpacks is quite self-contained,” said JB Straubel, Tesla’s chief technical officer. All of the batteries, cooling and safety systems, and other equipment are inside the casings, ready to load onto delivery trucks. “Our vehicle work lays a lot of the architectural foundation for this,” Mr. Straubel said. “It’s not as if we’re starting from scratch.”The Mira Loma project was able to come together so quickly in part because the state’s utilities already had several battery storage projects in the works, some involving Tesla. As the state has aggressively pursued the use of renewable energy sources, especially solar, in an effort to combat climate change, the traditional patterns of supply and demand have turned inside out.California is on track to have an overabundance of energy during the day when its many solar panels are producing energy, but that supply drops sharply as the sun sets, precisely when demand rises as residents come home to use appliances and, increasingly, charge their cars.At the same time, the state’s aging nuclear plants are either closed or being phased out, putting even more pressure on utilities to find alternative ways to feed the grid. Storage is a natural solution, utility executives say, helping to smooth out variations in the power flow from rooftop customers as well as when solar falls off and conventional plants haven’t yet filled the gap.Ronald O. Nichols, president of Southern California Edison, said the utility was looking for more ways to use that energy rather than having to curtail solar production, “which makes no greenhouse gas reduction sense.” By 2024, he said, the California system was expected to have far too much energy for at least a few hours each day, “so we want to find a way to use that energy productively, and battery storage is certainly a piece of that.”The utility’s need for storage was amplified after the sudden closing of the San Onofre nuclear plant in 2013. To fill that gap — and fulfill a state mandate to add storage to its energy portfolio — the utility awarded several contracts for battery storage.When the scale of the 2015 leak at the Aliso Canyon gas storage facility in the San Fernando Valley became clear, the commission moved to streamline the process for storage projects. That led to the Tesla project at the Mira Loma substation, as well as a power purchase agreement for electricity from a similar battery project that AltaGas had installed at a natural gas generator it owns in Pomona.Although battery storage is still costly, its price is comparable to the natural gas plants known as peakers, which can ramp up and down quickly to handle spikes in demand, utility executives say. This is particularly important in Southern California, which is constrained by geography and strict environmental regulations in building new power plants.Given the cost of land and the air quality requirements that limit the number of hours plants can operate, Mr. Nichols said, new natural gas plants can cost a lot to build.In contrast, batteries are more flexible and do not require the same kinds of infrastructure, including water and fuel supply conduits, as conventional generators, avoiding the need for lengthy environmental reviews and permitting processes.As a result, energy analysts say, battery installations are likely to become increasingly common, whether to vary the number of power supply options to enhance reliability or as part of a move away from fossil fuels in order to meet climate and other environmental goals.As an early adopter of renewable technologies, particularly solar, California has been willing to pay high prices, and has in turn helped lower them for other markets, said Swami Venkataraman, a senior vice president at Moody’s Investors Service who analyzes the utility sector. He sees parallels in how the state is approaching storage.“California is looking to the future where this would start a cycle where storage becomes cheaper all the time,” he said. “In the long run they would have less need — and maybe no need — for new natural-gas generation.”
Tesla has long promoted its cars as among the safest available. After its Model S electric sedan was reviewed by the federal government’s National Highway Traffic Safety Administration in 2013, Tesla said it had received the best safety rating of any car ever tested.But a more rigorous safety review has reached a different conclusion: that the Tesla S is not on a par with several of its luxury rivals.On Wednesday, the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, a group known for its strict testing, announced that the Tesla S did not receive either of its safety awards. That was, in part, because in one of five crash tests the dummy’s head hit the steering wheel.To be a 2017 Top Safety Pick, a vehicle must have “good” ratings in five crash tests and have an “advanced” or a “superior” rating for frontal crash prevention, which includes automatic emergency braking if a collision is imminent. To receive the higher 2017 Top Safety Pick+ designation, a vehicle must meet all those criteria and get an “acceptable” or “good” headlight rating, which was added for 2017.The Model S got an “acceptable” in the small overlap frontal, a test intended to replicate what happens when the front corner of a vehicle on the driver’s side hits another vehicle, a tree or a utility pole at 40 miles per hour.The seatbelt was not tight enough, the institute found, allowing the crash test dummy’s torso to be thrown so far forward that its head hit the steering wheel through the airbag. The impact was hard enough that it could cause a concussion or facial fractures in a real crash, said David Zuby, the organization’s executive vice president and chief research officer. But there was not a “high risk” of serious injury.“The seatbelt force limiter and airbag did not work together quite the way we think is good for this type of crash,” he said.The car’s headlights were rated “poor.”The insurance institute did not test the Model S’s forward collision prevention and automatic braking system because it bought the car before Tesla added new hardware and software in October.Tesla made those changes after a man died in a crash in Florida in May when the Model S was using Autopilot, its driver-assistance system. This month, federal regulators said they found no defects in the system that caused the crash and that the vehicle did not need to be recalled.On Jan. 23, Tesla made a change to address the head contact issue, Mr. Zuby said. The insurance institute will conduct a new small overlap test and will test the forward collision avoidance system when it receives a new vehicle with the changes.Tesla says its Model S still has the lowest probability of injury of any car ever tested by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. And when the insurance institute gets its new Model S with modifications, Tesla says it expects “to receive the highest possible rating in every category, making Model S eligible for the I.I.H.S. Top Safety Pick award.”The 2017 Model S was one of two all-electric vehicles the institute tested. The other, the BMW i3, narrowly missed one of the safety awards because its head restraints were rated “acceptable,” not “good.”Instead of the Top Safety Pick+ designation going to these two luxury cars, it went to two less-expensive plug-in hybrids, the 2017 Chevrolet Volt and Toyota Prius Prime.“Consumers might expect that luxury brand vehicles are safer, and in many cases they’d be right,” Mr. Zuby said. “But that’s not a hard and fast rule.”The insurance institute recommended that people choose any of the seven other 2017 large luxury models that have fared better than the Model S. The Top Safety Pick+ rating went to the Genesis G90 and G80 models, made by Hyundai, and the Lexus RC. Four rated “Top Safety Pick” are the Acura RLX, Audi A6, Infiniti Q70 and Volvo S90.
Just days before a public town meeting on Tuesday night, Jess Herbst, the mayor of New Hope, Tex., had an official announcement.“I am transgender.”The statement said that she had transitioned and would no longer use the name Jeff.The message was  a few hundred words long and appeared on the home screen of the official website of New Hope, a town of more than 630 residents about 40 miles north of Dallas. But she appeared to break barriers for the state.“As far as I know, I am the first openly transgender mayor on record in the state of Texas; there could be others who never came out,” Ms. Herbst said in an interview on Wednesday. “But I am the first to say, ‘Yes I am transgender and a seated mayor.’ ”Ms. Herbst informed residents in a statement on the town’s website about the change, and the joys of her life as a woman, including her preference in pronouns and the endurance of her marriage.“As your mayor I must tell you about something that has been with me since my earliest memories,” Ms. Herbst wrote. “I am Transgender. Two years ago, with the support of my wife, daughters and son-in-law, I began hormone replacement therapy (HRT).“At the time, I did not imagine I would hold the mayor’s position, but here I am.”Ms. Herbst has been active in local government since 2003 as an elected alderman, road commissioner and mayor pro tempore. In 2016, she was appointed New Hope’s mayor after the previous official in that post died.As of Wednesday morning, the New Hope town website was still referring to her as Mayor Jeff Herbst.But Ms. Herbst implied in her statement that she was patient: “I’m not especially sensitive to the pronoun I’m called, and I expect people to take time to make the change. I use the name Jess, a simple change from Jeff.”“I live my life as a female now, and I will be performing my duties to the town as such,” she wrote.On the town website, she also invited the public to make comments in the town’s public meeting on Jan 31.Ms. Herbst, 58, said in a telephone interview that after posting her statement on Jan. 23, she attended the council meeting for the first time dressed as a woman.“It was phenomenally positive; everyone was supportive,” she said. “We had a fairly packed crowd for a tiny town — there were 15 or 20 people there. I explained to the people who had not just had a chance to see the website, and everybody said, ‘O.K.,' and we went on and had a meeting.”But as an elected official who was later appointed as mayor, Ms. Herbst said that she was given a “very stern lecture” by the town attorney about laws that govern elections and canvassing, and that she was told not to change her name before the coming election cycle.Ms. Herbst also said she has received thousands of messages of support, and three negative ones.Replies to announcements on her Facebook page and the town’s website appear to be supportive, with residents praising her for coming forward in a state where, in most parts, it is legal to discriminate against people on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, according to the American Civil Liberties Union.In January, Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick, one of the most powerful Republican officials in the state, put Texas on the front lines of the nation’s culture wars when he announced the filing of a bill that would require people in government buildings and public schools to use the bathroom that corresponds with their “biological sex.”Critics said the bill discriminated against transgender people.Terri Burke, the executive director for the American Civil Liberties Union of Texas, said Mayor Herbst was showing “tremendous courage in discussing her identity with the public.“We applaud Mayor Herbst’s decision to serve her community openly in public office and take a stand against hateful rhetoric coming from some of our legislators,” Ms. Burke said in an email.“Some Texas lawmakers are attempting to exclude transgender Texans from public spaces with legislation like SB6, but we should be making it easier for them to share their skills and talents with us, not pushing them out of public restrooms and public life.”Ms. Herbst suggested on the city’s website that the culture was changing in the United States and directed constituents to her personal website, where she has kept a diary over the years. It included a gallery of photos titled, “Who I am now,” juxtaposed with a section called, “Who I used to be,” with images of her life as Jeff.Ms. Herbst said that she had the support of her family. Her wife grew up in New Hope, and the couple have lived in the town with their two daughters since 1999.“It is gender identity, not sexual preference that applies to me,” the mayor wrote. “I love my wife, and she loves me. We have no intention of change. My daughters have been adamant supporters of me and are proud to tell people their father is transgender.”In the interview Wednesday, Ms. Herbst said she began living full time as Jess toward the end of September, and gradually broke the news to friends, family and co-workers. Finally, there was no one left to tell but the wider town population, and that was when she made the announcement.“I am being who I am and doing what I have to do,” she said. “I am not trying to make some sort of big statement.”
A Texas mosque that was gutted by fire over the weekend has raised about $900,000 in donations since Saturday to go toward rebuilding, a mosque official said on Monday.Dr. Shahid Hashmi, a surgeon who in 2000 helped found the mosque, the Victoria Islamic Center, said that both an online fund-raising campaign and separate offerings of cash and checks from the local community had pushed total donations over $900,000.By the afternoon the online portion alone had reached over $910,000.The money will go toward rebuilding the 4,000-square-foot prayer and community center in Victoria, home to about 66,000 people, about 100 miles southwest of Houston. It was the only Muslim community center and place of worship for the approximately 40 Muslim families in the city, Dr. Hashmi said.Speaking during a break between surgeries, he said the mosque “is totally gone.”Some people have offered to perform carpentry work, lend their trucking services and knit new prayer rugs, while churches and a synagogue have offered space to Muslim members to pray and hold meetings, according to Dr. Hashmi and the fund-raising page.“Jewish community members walked into my home and gave me a key to the synagogue,” he said. “Churches came and prayed with us, and people brought cash and checks.”The investigation into how the mosque was consumed by fire before dawn on Saturday was continuing. The Victoria Fire Chief, Taner Drake, said the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives was helping to investigate, but he had no information about any leads, according to The Victoria Advocate. “That process can take days, weeks or even months,” he was quoted as saying.Dr. Hashmi said Muslims belonging to the mosque have been praying outside since the fire. They were also using a separate building on the grounds that had been undergoing a transformation into a free medical clinic to help poor residents of the neighborhood.Dr. Hashmi said that the mosque had been burglarized about a week ago and that it had been defaced by a youth who was made to apologize and carry out community service. The Victoria Advocate reported in 2013 that the person had scrawled “H8,” shorthand for “hate,” on the outside of the building.Officials have spent the past few days emphasizing that they had not established the cause of the fire. They have tried to distance the blaze from the national discourse about the order signed by President Trump last week that suspends entry to refugees and citizens of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen — all Muslim-majority nations.Abe Ajrami, a member of the Victoria mosque, said during a news conference this weekend that the donations were coming from across the country and abroad to rebuild the mosque, which he said was “a place where our kids grew up.”He added, “We have a lot of memories in this place.”“I don't care what they say out there in national media; this is a beautiful city and we have wonderful neighbors,” Mr. Ajrami said, according to  The Victoria Advocate.Muslim leaders and supporters from other faiths said last week that intolerance against Muslims had been on the rise both nationally and in Texas.After State Representative Kyle Biedermann sent more than 400 surveys to Texas Muslim leaders for their views on Islamic extremism, Muslim leaders said the surveys could stir intolerance ahead of Texas Muslim Capitol Day, Tuesday, during which Muslims visit the Capitol and meet lawmakers.Dr. Hashmi said the mosque grew from just a few families in the city to a place that held 500-strong capacity building where prayers and religious celebrations were held and families gathered on Friday nights to share meals.He said he learned the mosque was on fire when the imam called after receiving a notification that the alarm had been triggered. Dr. Hashmi and others who rushed to the site stood outside in the dark watching as the building was destroyed by fire.“When we all got there,” he said, “the flames were already coming out of the roof.”The Federal Bureau of Investigation, city and state police, and the sheriff’s department have assisted in the fire investigation, which can typically take a minimum of several weeks but sometimes can take months, said O.C. Garza, a city spokesman. The agencies finished collecting evidence on Monday.“Given the nature of this fire and what was burned we are hoping to get the results back quicker than that,” he said in a telephone message.
A Texas high school teacher can use marijuana in Colorado, where it is legal, and should not get into trouble for it in her home state, where it is illegal, an administrative law judge ruled.The Texas judge made the recommendation in a case involving Maryam Roland, who had taught science at Parkland High School in El Paso, Tex., and who told school district officials that she had ingested an edible marijuana product during Christmas break in Colorado in 2014-15.The ruling was sought by the Texas Education Agency, which asked the State Office of Administrative Hearings to look into the case. The education agency had sought to suspend Ms. Roland’s license for two years after she tested positive for marijuana two years ago. She resigned in February 2015, but a suspension would have affected any effort to return to teaching, the documents showed.But William G. Newchurch, the administrative law judge at the administrative hearings office, said that punishing Ms. Roland, 39, would be like taking action against someone who had gambled at a casino in Nevada and then returned to Texas, where gambling is illegal.Judge Newchurch said he did not find Ms. Roland “unworthy to instruct,” and he recommended that the education agency, which oversees primary and secondary public education in the state, take no action against her teaching certificate.“Possession of a usable quantity of marijuana is a criminal offense in Texas, but so is gambling,” the judge wrote. The judge’s decision was published by The Austin American-Statesman on Friday.Lauren Callahan, a spokeswoman for the education agency, said in a telephone interview on Monday that the judge’s decision would not be the last step in Ms. Roland’s case. She said the State Board for Educator Certification would also have a say in the matter. Sanctions can include suspension, reprimands or revocation of the teaching certificate.“I don’t think we have had this happen before,” Ms. Callahan said. “Specifically with the marijuana use, we have not seen a case like this before in terms of an educator’s certification and whether or not the educator is sanctioned.”Ms. Roland’s lawyer, Nicholas J. Enoch, declined to comment on Monday. He also said he had instructed his client not to comment.The case highlights some of the uncertainty that different state policies on marijuana pose for employees who use it, whether they live in states where it is legal or travel to states where it is not. Such cases are becoming more prevalent, legal experts say.In the eight states where medical and recreational marijuana are legal, and in the 29 states where only medical use is legal, laws allowing private employers to set their own testing policies have not yet caught up.“They have the right to drug tests, and employees are susceptible to being fired,” said Keith Stroup, legal counsel for the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, an advocacy group.One of the most closely watched cases occurred in, of all places, Colorado in 2015, when the State Supreme Court said that smoking marijuana off the job could still get an employee fired. That case involved a customer service worker, Brandon Coats, who used medical marijuana to soothe pain from a car accident that left him partly paralyzed. He was terminated from Dish Network in 2010 after testing positive for marijuana in a random drug test.In Ms. Roland’s case, education authorities became aware of her marijuana use after a “disgruntled” former employee made references to drugs in emails mentioning Ms. Roland and other employees, according to the documents published by The American-Statesman. It was not immediately clear exactly what the references said.Ms. Roland, who has had no disciplinary action on her record, resigned in 2015, the newspaper reported. In an interview with district officials, she said she had “occasionally” used marijuana, but not in more than a month and never at school. She said she had consumed an edible marijuana product in Colorado.After she agreed to be tested, marijuana traces were found in samples of her hair, where evidence of it can remain for six months, the document showed.The judge’s decision said the school district had no reasonable suspicion that testing would uncover evidence of work-related misconduct.It was not immediately clear when, or if, Ms. Roland planned to return to the school. Mr. Enoch, her lawyer, declined to answer questions about whether she intended to renew her teaching certificate and try to teach again.
President Trump has carried his Twitter habit into his presidency. He has also brought with him another tech habit that is causing concern.Mr. Trump has been using  his old, unsecured Android phone to post on Twitter since moving to Washington late last week.The president’s desire to use his old, personal smartphone raises concerns that its use could be exposing him and the nation to security threats.He is using the Android smartphone mainly to post on Twitter, not to make calls. But it’s unclear what security measures have been put in place on the device and how vulnerable he could be to someone stealing data or breaking into his Twitter account.The White House did not respond to a request for comment.Twitter requires a connection to the internet, which exposes the device to security vulnerabilities if proper measures like two-factor authentication — a password and a code texted to a phone, for example — are not in place. If he uses the smartphone on an unsecure Wi-Fi network, he could be exposing his location and other personal information on the device.“The absolutely minimum Trump could do to protect our nation is to use a secure device to protect him from foreign spies and other threats,” said Senator Ron Wyden, a Democrat from Oregon on the Intelligence Committee. “It would be irresponsible in the extreme for the commander in chief to use an unsecure device that could be easily hacked or intercepted.”Among the concerns by security experts:■ It is unclear if the device and its functions like texting are encrypted to thwart hacking.■ The device could be more vulnerable to hacking if used on unsecured Wi-Fi and cellular networks, such as when Mr. Trump travels between meetings or anywhere outside the White House.■ Hackers could access the device to turn on the camera and microphone.■ Stingray devices, a type of surveillance tool often used by law enforcement, can track a device’s location and other information.“There are a lot of questions, but it is clear there are often vulnerabilities in our phones and internet systems — and it is critical that people take precautions to ensure their sensitive information is protected from hackers and other malicious actors,” said Neema Singh Guliani, legislative counsel with the American Civil Liberties Union.The president’s use of the personal device is particularly notable given his criticism of Hillary Clinton for using a personal email address and server when she was secretary of state.In 2009, President Barack Obama fought to become the first president with a smartphone; though he won, the use of a White House-issued secure device came with many rules.“As president, he is the biggest sitting target in the world,” said Kevin Bankston, the director of New America’s Open Technology Institute.
The presidency of Donald J. Trump has been noteworthy for its speed. In his first week in office, as the president’s aides won’t tire of reminding us, Mr. Trump has already put in motion plans to do much of what he promised to do while campaigning.But it’s not just the politician who is moving fast. It’s the population, too.In a matter of hours on Saturday, thousands rushed to the nation’s airports, beckoned by tweets. The flash protests in response to Mr. Trump’s immigration ban, which continued to grow in many cities on Sunday, were as organized as they were instantaneous. Dispatched online, the protesters knew where to go, and they knew what to do once they arrived: to command the story by making a scene.Mr. Trump feeds off media attention. Throughout the campaign, the bigger a spectacle he created, the larger he loomed in the public consciousness. What has been remarkable during the last two weekends is how thoroughly Mr. Trump’s own media personage was blotted out by scenes of protesters.In a brief appearance on Saturday, the president assured the nation that his immigrant ban was “working out very nicely — you see it in the airports.” But the pictures and videos flooding across our social streams put the lie to Mr. Trump’s breezy pronouncements. Things at the airports weren’t working out very nicely; you could see it right there on Instagram.A similar story unfolded the weekend before. In his inaugural address Mr. Trump claimed the mantle of popular will. The next day, a far larger illustration of popular will was on display at marches across the country. The people who gathered for the women’s march hijacked the media narrative.Even for those who did not assemble on either weekend, the pictures carried special power. Amplified on social media and echoing across every TV network, they suggested something larger afoot, something democracy-defining. “Something’s happening out there,” Ana Navarro, the Republican never-Trumper and television pundit, declared on Twitter.Something sure is. We’re witnessing the stirrings of a national popular movement aimed at defeating the policies of Mr. Trump. It is a movement without official leaders. In fact, to a noteworthy degree, the formal apparatus of the Democratic Party has been nearly absent from the uprisings. Unlike the Tea Party and the white-supremacist “alt-right,” the new movement has no name. Call it the alt-left, or, if you want to really drive Mr. Trump up the wall, the alt-majority.Or call it nothing. Though nameless and decentralized, the movement isn’t chaotic. Because it was hatched on social networks and is dispatched by mobile phones, it appears to be organizationally sophisticated and ferociously savvy about conquering the media.Over two weekends, the protests have accomplished something just about unprecedented in the nearly two years since Mr. Trump first declared his White House run: They have nudged him from the media spotlight he depends on. They are the only force we’ve seen that has been capable of untangling his singular hold on the media ecosystem.The movement is new and possibly fragile; it could dissipate, like so much else that has come up against Mr. Trump.But in such a short time, the movement has proved unusually adept. It can marshal crowds quickly, as we saw over the weekend, and it can go big, as we saw in the women’s marches, which some crowd scientists believe were the largest day of protest in American history.The movement has other skills. It’s capable of coming up with catchy slogans, funny signs and even branding efforts to rival Mr. Trump’s own. The president has his Make America Great Again hats. Protesters at the women’s march had pink woolen hats with cat ears — “pussy hats,” a reference to the president’s confessed penchant for grabbing things.But unlike Mr. Trump’s hats, the pink caps came from the crowd. Thousands of knitters created them in the weeks between the election and the inauguration, then mailed them off to strangers who shared their views.There’s money, too. Since Mr. Trump’s win, the inchoate online movement has sparked millions in donations to progressive groups such as Planned Parenthood and the American Civil Liberties Union. Over the weekend, the A.C.L.U. raised more than $20 million.The movement can also compel the attention of elites. In large part because of pressure from their connected work forces, the leaders of many technology companies denounced Mr. Trump’s immigration orders. Between Friday and Monday, thanks to the movement, Silicon Valley was transformed. An industry that was once merely skeptical of Mr. Trump largely became opposed to him, only because crowds forced change.Most important, though, the movement can command the media narrative. The president has promised a lot of bold change. His boldness will involve lots of real-world consequences. Millions might lose health care coverage if he repeals the Affordable Care Act. Many might be deported if he achieves his immigration proposals.If the last two weeks are any indication, though, none of this will happen quietly. There will be pictures and viral videos of real people facing hardship, and those pictures are sure to inspire hordes. When people are left with crippling medical bills in the absence of health insurance, or when people are deported to Mexico, you will see large gatherings on Facebook, and then on TV.Already, a group of scientists are planning to march on Washington in opposition to what they say is Mr. Trump’s disdain for science. There are other protests planned for Tax Day in April to remind the nation that the president once promised to release his tax returns, then reneged.You might wonder if the protests will achieve much. Americans have protested before (the war in Iraq comes to mind) and the protests did not, in themselves, alter national policy.But if Mr. Trump has proved anything, it’s that everything is different now. We live in a culture ruled by social media streams, one in which most people are skeptical of what they see and read in the “mainstream media.”This explains why Stephen K. Bannon, the former executive chairman of Breitbart News who is a close adviser to Mr. Trump, has been seeking to paint the news media as Mr. Trump’s primary opposition. The weakened news media is an easy mark for Mr. Trump. If the media is his only opponent, he’s got nothing to worry about.Unlike the news media, though, protesters produce an undeniable reality. Protesters can’t easily be dismissed as “fake news.” They come to you unmediated — not from The New York Times, but from your friends and friends of friends on Facebook.They are, in other words, just another version of your social network — the physical manifestation of an outraged News Feed. Because they’re people you know, they can’t easily be maligned as biased or unfair.When politicians take on political crowds rather than other politicians, it usually ends badly. Hillary Clinton had to apologize for calling Mr. Trump’s supporters “deplorables.” After first bashing the women’s march on Twitter, even Mr. Trump had to praise the demonstrators.There’s another reason for believing that protests could prove effective against Mr. Trump’s policies: The protesters seem to drive him crazy. Mr. Trump is enamored of crowds. Throughout the campaign, he and his surrogates argued that the polls were rigged, and that his large rallies suggested there was a growing tide of support for his candidacy. The crowds, in other words, became the whole ballgame. They were the only reality that mattered. If he won the crowd, he’d win the election.Now Mr. Trump faces the same dynamic, in reverse. The crowds at his inauguration were supposed to certify his popularity. When they fizzled, and were then outmatched by opposition protests, he couldn’t help relitigating the matter for days.Things haven’t gotten better. Now there are crowds on every screen and every feed. The people aren’t saying nice things about him. And there’s something worse than that, too: They’ve stolen the limelight for themselves.
At the 2017 SAG Awards on Sunday night, several winners used their acceptance speeches to denounce the policies of President Trump and to address the country’s deep divisions. Here are excerpts from speeches by Julia Louis-Dreyfus, who took home an award for “Veep,” Mahershala Ali, who won for “Moonlight,” and David Harbour, a star of “Stranger Things,” which won the SAG equivalent of best TV drama.Whether the Russians did or did not hack the voting of tonight’s SAG Awards, I look out on the million, or probably even a million and a half people in this room, and I say, this award is legitimate, and I won! I’m the winner, the winner is me — landslide!... To a less insane note, I’d like to say that I am a very proud member of this union, and I’m thrilled to be here tonight, and I thank the Screen Actors Guild. I want you all to know that I am the daughter of an immigrant. My father fled religious persecution in Nazi-occupied France, and I’m an American patriot. And I love this country. And because I love this country, I am horrified by its blemishes. This immigrant ban is a blemish, and it is un-American.... Our sister guild, the [Writers Guild], made a statement today that I would like to read because I am in complete agreeance with it. Our guilds are unions of storytellers who have always welcomed those from the nations and of varying beliefs who wish to share their creativity with America. We are grateful for them. We stand with them, and we will fight for them. Thank you very much.... I would just like to say that in light of all that’s going on in the world today, it’s difficult to celebrate the already celebrated “Stranger Things.” But this award from you who take your craft seriously and earnestly believe, like me, that great acting can change the world. [It’s] a call to arms from our fellow craftsmen and women to go deeper and through our art to battle against fear, self-centeredness and exclusivity of our predominantly narcissistic culture, and through our craft to cultivate a more empathetic and understanding society by revealing intimate truths that serve as a forceful reminder to folks that when they feel broken and afraid and tired they are not alone.We are united in that we are all human beings and we are all together on this horrible, painful, joyous, exciting and mysterious ride that is being alive. Now, as we act in the continuing narrative of “Stranger Things,” we 1983 Midwesterners will repel bullies, we will shelter freaks and outcasts, those who have no homes. We will get past the lies. We will hunt monsters. And when we are at a loss amidst the hypocrisy and the casual violence of certain individuals and institutions we will, as per Chief Jim Hopper, punch some people in the face when they seek to destroy the weak and the disenfranchised and the marginalized and we will do it with soul, with heart and with joy. We thank you for this responsibility. Thank you.What I’ve learned from working on “Moonlight” is, we see what happens when you persecute people. They fold into themselves. And what I was so grateful about in having the opportunity to play Juan was, playing a gentleman who saw a young man folding into himself as a result of the persecution of his community, and taking that opportunity to uplift him and tell him that he mattered and that he was O.K. and accept him and, uh — I hope that we do a better job of that.You know, when we kind of get caught up in the minutiae, the details that make us all different, I think there’s two ways of seeing that. There’s an opportunity to see the texture of that person, the characteristics that make them unique.And then there’s an opportunity to go to war about it, and to say that that person is different than me, and I don’t like you, so let’s battle. My mother is an ordained minister. I’m a Muslim. She didn’t do back flips when I called her to tell her I converted 17 years ago. But I tell you now, we put things to the side, and I’m able to see her, she’s able to see me — we love each other, the love has grown, and that stuff in minutiae. It’s not that important.”
The fourth iteration of New York Fashion Week: Men’s begins Monday, Jan. 30. The event, organized by the Council of Fashion Designers of America (C.F.D.A.), is four days of designers, models, editors, buyers and fashion fans rushing about Lower Manhattan (for the most part) to view some 70 shows and presentations, the majority taking place at Skylight Clarkson Sq, an event space at 550 Washington Street.“New York men’s week is more important than ever, now that it’s more established,” Jim Moore, the creative director of GQ magazine, said. “I’m looking forward to even more designers on the schedule, especially new designers, and the return of some old standbys. Not to mention, Raf Simons showing here.”Raf Simons is indeed the name on everyone’s lips. In 2015, when the Belgian designer departed Christian Dior, few anticipated he would end up on American shores. But late last summer, Mr. Simons took on a big job: the creative director for Calvin Klein. He is scheduled to show the latest collection from his own men’s wear line on Wednesday.Editors of fashion magazines and department store buyers have lately traveled through men’s fashion shows in London, Florence, Milan and Paris. The New York shows tend to have a looser, grittier feel than the often-extravagant runway exhibitions in Milan and Paris, and the people who attend seem more relaxed.“I’m looking forward to seeing what the next guard of American men’s wear has in store for us: David Hart, John Elliot, Stampd, Todd Snyder,” Mr. Moore said. “These guys are pushing the industry forward in exciting ways.”Want to see for yourself? Here is our guide to the week. (All events take place at Skylight Clarkson Sq unless otherwise noted).Monday, Jan. 30, 8 p.m.In previous years, the C.F.D.A. has given the opening party; this year, Billy Reid, a fashion superstar of the South and known bon vivant, will play the host. Mr. Reid will import his Shindig — the down-home revel of barbecue, liquor and music he gives every summer in Alabama — to the Cellar at the Beekman hotel. It starts at 9:30, after select guests watch his runway show.Raf SimonsWednesday, Feb. 1, 8 p.m. (Secret location as of publication.)Mr. Simons took the reins at Calvin Klein in August, where he will oversee both men’s and women’s collections. The Calvin Klein show — with the men’s and women’s collections presented together — will show together later in February. This one is devoted to his namesake men’s wear line, which makes its N.Y.F.W.: Men’s debut.Dim MakTuesday, Jan. 31, 11 a.m.Electronic music aficionados with recognize the name Dim Mak as the indie label tied in with the D.J. Steve Aoki. Expect skateboarders, a halfpipe and live music at this presentation from a man known for his gift for spectacle. The streetwear label, founded in 2014 and until recently sold only in Japan, made its United States debut in the fall of 2016 with a pop-up shop in Los Angeles. If you can get in, this is one not to miss.DyneTuesday, Jan. 31, 1 to 2 p.m. (837 Washington Street)Christopher Bevans of Dyne doesn’t make his clothing in a studio, but in a “design lab” in Portland, Ore., where the label is based. This is fashion at its tech-iest. Mr. Bevans, the former creative director of Pharrell’s Billionaire Boys Club and a lecturer at M.I.T., was also the designer behind Marshawn Lynch’s Beast Mode brand.JahnkoyTuesday, Jan. 31, 7:30 to 8:30 p.m.Jahnkoy Maria, the Siberian-born designer behind Jahnkoy, describes herself as an artist interested in repurposing clothing as a means to raise awareness among consumers. Relying heavily on African and Caribbean tropes, the result is an eye-popping array of art as uniform.Raun LaRoseWednesday, Feb. 1, noon to 1 p.m. (Cadillac House, 330 Hudson Street)This is the sixth season for Mr. Larose, a 30-year-old native New Yorker, but this presentation represents the first time his futuristic goods will appear at N.Y.F.W.: Men’s. He garnered much attention for a clever spring 2015 collection titled “Because the Internet.”You AsWednesday, Feb. 1, 10:30 to 11:30 a.m.Recently graduated from the School of Art Institute of Chicago, Tony Liu’s year-old brand has a mission: to build a “lasting wardrobe.” For Mr. Liu, it’s all about new classics, not trends.Death to TennisWednesday, Feb. 1, 5 to 6 p.m. (Le Bain, 848 Washington Street)The brainchild of the designer William Watson (who has experience at Ralph Lauren and Donna Karan) and the D.J. and stylist Vincent Oshin, Death to Tennis creates what the founders call “Adult Streetwear.” Think roomy chalk-stripe suits, quilted anoraks and funky knits.BodeThursday, Feb. 2, 10:30 to 11:30 a.m.A lot of people are talking about young Emily Bode’s old-school style. In July 2016, this Parson-trained designer introduced her line of men’s wear using found materials and antique fabrics that she has been collecting since childhood. Her models will include actors and dancers, whom she cast through Instagram, on a rotating set.Willy ChavarriaThursday, Feb. 2, 2:30 to 3:30 p.m.The proprietor of Palmer Trading Company, on Sullivan Street, Mr. Chavarria began his fashion career dealing exclusively in vintage items, but eventually became recognized for contemporary work wear (he hates the word “heritage,” and we don’t blame him). He is presenting his own line for the first time.New York Men’s DayMonday, Jan. 30, 10:30 a.m. to noon, and 4:30 to 6 p.m. (Dune Studios, 55 Water Street)New York Men’s Day offers a vibrant concentration of prospects from the world of men’s fashion. It is sure to be a zingy and energetic affair, with each room a cacophony of models, photographers and gawkers. The early session includes Bristol, David Hart, Kozaburo, Krammer & Stoudt, Max ’n Chester and Uri Minkoff. Later on, you can catch David Naman, Maiden Noir, Private Policy, R. Swiader, By Robert James and one of our favorites from last season, Wood House.EFMTuesday, Jan 31, noon (Cadillac House, 330 Hudson Street)The EFM (“engineered for motion”) designer Donrad Duncan is all about high-tech sportswear. The rapper Young Paris, who made the playlist for this season’s show, will also appear as a model.Brett JohnsonTuesday, Jan. 31, 4 p.m. (Cadillac House, 330 Hudson Street)Mr. Johnson, the son of the BET founders Sheila and Robert Johnson, started his line in 2013. The self-taught designer focuses on Italian-made, wearable, recognizable men’s wear staples.Zachary PrellTuesday, Jan. 31, 7 to 8 p.m.Mr. Prell, a former banker and venture capitalist, built his line on the sport shirt, because he believed it was the fundamental piece in a man’s wardrobe. Now his collection includes risk-free sweaters, sure-bet blazers and sensible polos.Kenneth NingWednesday, Feb. 1, 1 p.m. (837 Washington Street)Mr. Ning, who riffed on looks inspired by Stanley Kubrick’s “Full Metal Jacket” last season, has made quite a departure from the more conventional work he made while designing for American powerhouses like Michael Kors and Calvin Klein. Definitely worth a look.DeveauxWednesday, Feb. 1, 4 p.m. (Cadillac House, 330 Hudson Street)TriBeCa’s Carson Street Clothiers, a fashion-forward men’s wear clubhouse, closed recently, but two of its founders — Matt Breen and Patrick Doss (along with Andrea Taso) — are pushing onward with their own made-in-the-USA collection.LandlordWednesday, Feb. 1, 6:30 to 7:30 p.m.Ryohei Kawanishi, the creative director of this brash, year-old label, loves to exaggerate. Everything in his collection — pockets, zippers, shoulders, pant legs — can be fun, loud and theatrical.Loris DiranThursday, Feb. 2, 10 a.m.The Franco-American Upper West Sider, who designed men’s looks for “The Devil Wears Prada,” unveils his latest “dialogue between sartorial and streetwear.” Expect double-breasted blazers, sleek silhouettes and texture galore.Nick GrahamTuesday, Jan. 31, 10 a.m.It has been reported that the 87-year-old astronaut Buzz Aldrin will close out Mr. Graham’s show this year, adding a weird but wonderful touch to the Joe Boxer founder’s collection of punchy suits and shirts. This season the theme is Mars.Carlos CamposTuesday, Jan. 31, 3 p.m.Mr. Campos, who was born in Honduras and educated at the Fashion Institute of Technology, has been showing in New York since 2007. The son of a tailor, he has come into his in a major way over the last few seasons, moving from the Men’s Day group shows to his own stage.MatiereWednesday, Feb. 1, 2:30 to 3:30 p.m.Started in 2014, Matiere is the meeting of two forward-looking minds: the designers Scot Shandalove and Jake Zeitlin. They are dedicated to fabric, specializing in innovative, textured materials in their athleisure-themed men’s wear.RochambeauWednesday, Feb. 1, 3 p.m.Expectations will be high this season after the design partners Laurence Chandler and Joshua Cooper were named winners of Woolmark’s 2016-17 men’s wear prize (for the United States) in July 2016. The designers, who take inspiration of the post-Sept. 11 art world populated by the likes of Ryan McGinley and Dash Snow, count Nick Jonas among their fans.Palmiers Du MalWednesday, Feb. 1, 6 p.m.This is the third New York outing for Brandon Capps and Shane Fonner’s unisex garments. Ideal for the jet set, if the jet set would only learn to chill.StampdThursday, Feb. 2, 2 to 3 p.m.Chris Stamp’s minimalist collection of nylon bombers and urban gear — which evolved from his sneaker-paining business — is what you would call luxe streetwear. Approved by Kanye and Justin Bieber, Stampd is the logical end of the trim sweatpants trend.Thaddeus O’NeilThursday, Feb. 2, 6 to 7 p.m.Mr. O’Neil, a surfer, presents his meditative, breezy, yet rebellious pieces.SamuelSohnMonday, Jan. 30, 3 to 4 p.m. (Location undisclosed at press time.)The suit makers combine luxury fabrics with specialized water-resistant and stretchy materials. This show, a first for the brand, is part of a push into the American market that, last year, included outfitting the Los Angeles Galaxy soccer club.BossTuesday, Jan. 31, 9 p.m. (Location undisclosed at press time.)New York Fashion Week’s loss is men’s gain. The house announced in November that it intended to place more focus on its men’s ready-to-wear offerings, and would not be showing a women’s collection at N.Y.F.W.David Hart x Hart Schaffner MarxWednesday, Feb. 1, 5 to 6 p.m. (Cooper Classics, 137 Perry Street)Hart Schaffner Marx — a brand founded in Chicago in 1837 (now owned by the W Diamond Group) — has for a second season tapped David Hart (no relation to the founding Hart) as creative director of its capsule collection. Mr. Hart’s retro patterns and debonair cuts have made him N.Y.F.W.: Men’s suit star.Combatant GentlemanThursday, Feb. 2, 11 a.m. to noonThe online retailer, established in 2012 and based in Irvine, Calif., offers suits for a low as $160. It’s the brainchild of Vishaal Melwani, the child of tailors, who uses an algorithm to provide office wear for what Mr. Melwani calls a “baller on a budget.”Robert GellerTuesday, Jan. 31, 2 p.m.The German-born Mr. Geller, who helped dress downtown Manhattan in the aughts as part of the goth-y label Cloak, has cemented himself as the premiere conceptual designer of New York Fashion Week: Men’s.Ovadia & SonsTuesday, Jan. 31, 8 to 9 p.m.The twin brothers Shimon and Ariel Ovadia grew up worshiping Ralph Lauren’s preppy sheen and the punk aesthetic of St. Marks Place. This show always draws a boisterous crowd.Patrik ErvellWednesday, Feb. 1, 10 a.m.Always sardonically intelligent in his designs, Mr. Ervell, a former fashion editor at V, has been focused on redefining the line between streetwear and formal wear long before his American contemporaries.John ElliottWednesday, Feb. 1, 11 a.m.The Los Angeles clothier, named one of GQ’s best American designers of the last decade, has perfected the art of taking what we wear on the field (our court, or pitch) and bringing it to the street, or office.Todd SnyderWednesday, Feb. 1, 7 p.m.Mr. Snyder, who had major roles at Ralph Lauren, Gap and J. Crew before founding his own brand in 2011, continues his near-peerless execution of American sportswear, including blazers you want to live in and knits to die for.Tim CoppensThursday, Feb. 2, 7 to 9 p.m. (at Exposure Space, 393 Broadway)After graduating Antwerp’s Royal Academy of Fine Arts, Mr. Coppens turned to technical sportswear, working with brands like Bogner and RLX. In 2016, Mr. Coppens was named the creative director of Under Armor Sportwear. This season, he will present a capsule collection alongside a book, based on the collection, titled “Candylips.”Ricardo SecoMonday, Jan. 30, 6 to 7 p.m. (Location undisclosed at time of publication)With President Trump’s wall dominating the news, plenty of eyes will be on this Mexican-born designer, who in the past has played with materials from his homeland’s traditional cultural items, like serapes.GarciavelezTuesday, Jan. 31, 10:30 to 11:30 a.m.This is the third season that Carlos Garciavelez, the Mexican-born architect, urbanist and Harvard lecturer, has shown his chill and graphic collections during New York Fashion Week: Men’s.N. HoolywoodTuesday, Jan. 31, 5 p.m. (Metropolitan Suite, 123 West 18th Street)The Japanese designer Daisuke Obana doesn’t follow men’s wear group think. But his looks, always a little mysterious, are grounded in practicality and recognizable silhouettes. The theme of this season: retro “high-spec” tive. (Huh?)Palomo SpainThursday, Feb. 2, noon (Cadillac House, 330 Hudson Street)Less than a year ago, the Spanish designer Alejandro Gómez Palomo made his debut with a gender-bending miasma inspired by Virginia Woolf’s “Orlando.” He is not afraid of a ruffle, the color pink or velvet.General IdeaThursday, Feb. 2, 5 p.m.You may not find General Idea at Barney’s or down at the mall (unless you live near the shopping district, Shinjuku), but the Korean designer Bumsuk Choi’s singular approach to proportion and detail make this show a must-see.N-p-ElliottTuesday, Jan. 31, 2:30 to 3:30 p.m.Nicholas Elliott calls his clothing “principled street wear.” The Scotsman, who enjoys messing with expectations (formal prints on casual shorts; tank tops in velvet; pants as wide as gallon drums), is having his second go at New York Fashion Week: Men’s.RepresentThursday, Feb. 2, 4 p.m. (Cadillac House, 330 Hudson Street)As a measure of quality control, these Mancunians fabricate all of their wares in Britain, yet they have chosen New York as the place to show their ripped jeans, plaid shirts and hoodies popping out of shearling-lined jackets.Matthew Adams DolanThursday, Feb. 2, 5:30 to 6:30 p.m.Mr. Dolan, who hails from Australia, is renowned as Rihanna’s go-to guy for denim. Look for his indigo-heavy overalls, jeans and jumpsuits that flare like nothing else you’ve seen before.Joseph AbboudMonday, Jan. 30, 7 p.m. (St. Stephen’s Church, 151 East 28th Street)Mr. Abboud’s namesake label (now owned by Tailored Brands, formerly Men’s Wearhouse) is celebrating 30 years. Mr. Abboud remains a king of the functional American suit. Late in 2016, it was announced that his company would dress the coaches of the National Basketball Association for the eighth straight year.Ralph LaurenWednesday, Feb. 1 (by appointment only)This year marks the 50th anniversary of Mr. Lauren’s legendary brand. While there is no show scheduled for next week, certain fashion V.I.P.s will be able to review the collection by appointment.Jeffrey RüdesTuesday, Jan. 31, 6 p.m.Mr. Rüdes, the founder of J Brand jeans, established his namesake label in 2015, and gave his louche suits and expensive shirts a very nice home of their own by opening a sizable boutique on Greene Street in SoHo. On Tuesday, he’ll invite a few V.I.P.s to view the Florentine-tailored goods he’ll unleash next fall.OrleyThursday, Feb. 2, 3 p.m.Alex Orley, Matthew Orley (they’re brothers) and Samantha Orley (Matthew Orley’s wife) started their brand in 2012 with just a select few pieces of colorful, patterned Italian knitwear. Since then, they have achieved critical praise, and expanded into fuller collections for men and women.NauticaWednesday, Feb. 1, 2 to 3 p.m.One of the few major American sportswear brands to show this season, Nautica is determined to capitalize on the current wave of nostalgia for its signature decade, the 1990s. But the brand isn’t just holding on to the past: it has named the 19-year-old rapper and style sensation Lil Yachty as a creative designer.John VarvatosThursday, Feb. 2, 7 to 9 p.m. (Diamond Horseshoe, 235 West 46th Street)What is left to be said by this iconic rock-inspired brand? Plenty, apparently. Mr. Varvatos has named this season “Wild at Heart” in a nod to the 1990 David Lynch film, and promises leopard prints. We can also expect a good deal of denim, suede and killer leather jackets. When you’re reaching audiences the size of Mr. Varvatos’s, you have to play the hits.
At 10:33 a.m. on Sunday, Nov. 1 of last year, the highway police in Ningbo, an industrial city on China’s eastern coast, posted a seemingly innocuous message to their official microblog. “Due to sudden traffic control,” the message read, “all the entrances and exits of the G15 Expressway at Hangzhou Bay Bridge have been closed.”That weekend, Xu Xiang, one of the wealthiest men in China, had been visiting Ningbo, his hometown, to attend his grandmother’s 100th birthday party. As the founder of Zexi Investment, one of China’s most successful hedge funds, Xu had consistently produced returns that were truly unbelievable: His worst-performing fund had grown by nearly 800 percent in five years. He had also survived countless corruption investigations, market falls, purges and other scares. Yet even as his legend grew, Xu remained intensely secretive. He had amassed a fortune by trading on knowledge and information no one else had, rumors no one else knew — a strategy perfectly crafted for China, where information is tightly controlled and reluctantly released. (Almost every source I approached for this article would only speak to me anonymously, fearing government reprisal or harm to their business.) Even as Xu grew richer and more powerful, he kept nearly every detail about his personal life and his trading techniques jealously hidden.That equilibrium seemed certain to crumble on June 12, when the Chinese stock market began a free-fall. In the span of three weeks, the market lost a third of its value. It continued to careen downward throughout the summer, with major declines on July 27 and Aug. 24. On the second of these, named Black Monday by The People’s Daily, the Shanghai composite index fell by 8.5 percent, its worst single-day tumble in eight years. In the span of two and a half months, $5 trillion was wiped out of the market. The ripples were felt around the globe. On Black Monday, the Dow Jones industrial average fell more than 1,000 points shortly after opening, and the FTSE 100 index in London lost $116 billion. Yet Xu (pronounced shu) somehow managed to survive this free-fall unscathed.Despite his wealth, the party in Ningbo had been a low-key affair. Xu’s family shared his taste for anonymity. His wife preferred the subway to her chauffeured car, and his grandmother still lived in the same middle-class neighborhood where Xu grew up. But the festivities were interrupted a little before 10:30 that Sunday, when Xu received a message bearing a warning: The authorities were coming for him.Xu left the party immediately and sped north on the G15 Expressway toward Shanghai. As he drove, he passed neighborhoods of squat gray apartment buildings with smog-stained walls, unkempt courtyards and barred windows. He crossed the Fenghua River, which bisects Ningbo, and curved along Hangzhou Bay, racing toward the bridge. But he didn’t know about the police blockade. When he reached the bridge, the authorities ushered him from his car and shuttled him to the side of the expressway to an office of the highway patrol.For all the secrecy and intrigue that had long surrounded Xu, the moment of his downfall was strikingly prosaic. That evening, a photo of him appeared on the Internet. Dressed in a white Armani coat, gray button-down shirt and rimless glasses, he is clean-shaven, with pudgy cheeks and a receding mop of unruly black hair. Someone out of frame is carefully pulling back the sleeve on Xu’s coat, revealing the clasp of a handcuff around his wrist. Xu stares directly into the camera, seemingly unmoved or uncomprehending. If he is surprised or distraught, his face betrays no hint of it. It is the only known photograph of the man who, until that morning, had been the king of China’s stock market.The story of Xu Xiang starts with the beginning of the Chinese market itself. Xu, who grew up in a quiet, lower-class neighborhood of hardscrabble shops and public housing projects in Ningbo, was a freshman in high school when China opened its first stock exchange in nearby Shanghai in 1990. Market fever spread quickly through Ningbo, which had a long history as a commercial hub and a proud business culture. Stocks were a natural fit, and a few trading outposts opened.Xu began trading while still in high school. He was entirely self-taught: His parents, a retired factory worker and a homemaker, knew nothing about investing. “I studied the stock market by reading books and attending lectures and by studying foreign investment techniques,” Xu later told Caixin, a Chinese news organization, in one of the few interviews he has given. After graduating from high school, he skipped China’s infamous college entrance exam and borrowed 30,000 renminbi (roughly $5,000) from his parents to trade full time. He would later say that he had actually been born in 1993 — the year he first started trading stocks.At the time, millions of Chinese were opening stock accounts with an enthusiasm that proved long-lasting and transformative. Between Shanghai and a second exchange in Shenzhen, the market grew from a capitalization of $61 billion in 1993 to $10 trillion by the summer of 2015. Unlike in the United States, where institutional investors dominate the market, China’s 200 million mom-and-pop investors make roughly 85 percent of all trades. According to a survey by the State Street Center for Applied Research, 81 percent of these trade at least once a month. But less-experienced individual investors are easily swayed by rumors and operate with a poor understanding of market fundamentals, making them easy prey for more systematic and sophisticated traders. “All these small individual investors are called ‘chives’ in the market,” says Hong Yan, a finance professor at the Shanghai Advanced Institute of Finance. “They get cut over and over again, but they come back every time, like little weeds.”In his early days, Xu worked from the Galaxy Securities trading hall on South Liberation Road in Ningbo. Stock prices were written in chalk on blackboards, and arbitrary rule changes affecting stock issuance and corporate disclosure constantly jostled an already unpredictable market. In 1992, the Shanghai index grew by 167 percent — then tumbled roughly 75 percent between April 1993 and July 1994. The fact that China Galaxy Securities was a state-owned enterprise offered little protection; as Xu cut his teeth, the traders around him won and lost fortunes almost overnight.On an overcast Monday morning last December, I visited Galaxy. The building itself had hardly changed from the days when Xu first set foot inside. Located beside a pharmacy that glowed with blue lights, the eight-story structure seemed on the verge of physical collapse. A wide concrete staircase, littered with cigarette butts and sun­flower seeds, led up to the main trading hall on the second floor, which, by 9 a.m., was packed with haggard-looking investors. Directly opposite the trading board, hung above a small statue of a golden bull, was a red banner urging traders to “stay away from illegal securities activities.”The heady tumult of those early days in China’s stock market shaped what would become Xu’s signature style: Buy quickly, sell quickly and always go big. It was the familiar ethos of day trading, but taken to the extreme within a Wild West market in which information was scarce, unreliable or nonexistent. Xu won renown so quickly that by 1995, at 19, he was rumored to be the subject of a heated dispute between two powerful Shanghai gangsters. Having seen the lucrative potential of the market, and the exceptional returns of the young trader, both men wanted Xu as their own personal investor. Several sources told me that the dispute was eventually settled by a leader from one of China’s infamous triad gangs — and that, improbably, the episode later became the inspiration for a series of Hong Kong gangland movies about stock-market geniuses.As Xu’s fame grew, so did his network. By the late 1990s, he became the unofficial captain of a group popularly known as the Ningbo Death Squad. The squad made its reputation by manipulating cheap, relatively unknown stocks, which in the Chinese market are not allowed to rise or fall more than 10 percent in a single trading day. To game the system, the squad devised a strategy: Out of nowhere, it would place a gigantic order for a chosen stock. Other traders, seeing the sudden upward movement in price, would flood in, pushing the stock toward its daily 10-percent limit. Once the stock hit the limit on the first day, the momentum became self-perpetuating. Eager traders rushed to buy the stock as soon as the market opened the next day, propelling it toward the 10-percent limit once again. The movement generated its own publicity and easy profits. After a few days, the squad would sell out, and the stock would tumble back to a lower price as other traders followed. In the American context, this tactic was reminiscent of present-day schemes in “penny stocks,” but with much higher stakes, and playing out in a regulatory environment that mirrored the early days of the United States market. One Chinese day trader I talked to spoke in reverent tones about the turn-of-the-century American stock picker Jesse Livermore, who made and lost several multimillion-dollar fortunes before killing himself in 1940 at 63.As the squad gained notoriety, other traders began to monitor the buy orders coming from the Galaxy trading hall — any stock they picked was guaranteed to attract attention, and a corresponding surge in buy orders. Profit was almost unavoidable.Despite Xu’s preference for anonymity — he eschewed flashy purchases while other squad members parked new sports cars conspicuously in front of the trading hall — the group took on a mythical status. There was a series of books by two self-proclaimed “Ningbo masters,” as well as traveling seminars that promised to teach legions of novice investors the moneymaking secrets of the Ningbo Death Squad. Copycat death squads popped up in other Chinese cities.The attention was not all positive. After a 2003 article in The China Securities Journal raised questions, the China Securities Regulatory Commission, the country’s chief market watchdog, assigned a special czar to investigate the trading practices at Galaxy Securities and five other Ningbo trading halls. In the process, the czar called in a number of big-name local traders for an “informal discussion session.” The squad disappeared from the market, only to return a week later when the czar released a public statement saying he had found no evidence of wrongdoing. Whatever the traders’ methods, they were pulling in millions, and Ningbo — and the greater Chinese economy — was thriving.By 2005, Xu had outgrown his hometown. He needed to be closer to power and money on a scale that Ningbo couldn’t provide. With his usual perfect timing, he moved to Shanghai with hundreds of millions of renminbi just as the country’s hedge-fund industry was taking off. The industry existed in some form as early as the 1990s, but in those days the amounts traded were small — China’s economy was still developing — and there was no local expertise or legal framework. What funds did exist operated in the shadows, absent any type of government regulation. “Who could run hedge funds?” a former Chinese regulatory official says. “At that time, it was an open question.”It was only in 2005 that a revision to China’s Securities Law helped pave the way for hedge funds. Those funds that decided to operate openly within the new framework became known as “sunshine funds,” to distinguish them from funds who kept their participants hidden. As this was happening, a new class of wealthy Chinese, enriched by the country’s rapid economic boom, suddenly found themselves with billions of renminbi to invest. “It was just the perfect storm,” says Zhang Howhow, the director of strategy at KPMG in Hong Kong. “People were starting to study the regulations more closely, more seriously, to find a relatively legal way to approach this as a business. The market was going up, and you have a group of high-net-worth individuals.” This was Xu’s chance “to build a proper hedge fund in China — the biggest, the most successful.”On Dec. 7, 2009, Xu founded Zexi Investments with 30 million renminbi — a little under $4.5 million — in capital. The name was a homage to the two men Xu admired most: “Ze” for Mao Zedong, the founder of the People’s Republic of China, and “xi” for Emperor Kangxi, the longest-ruling emperor in Chinese his­tory. In March 2010, Xu opened Zexi’s first fund with one billion renminbi. It was technically a sunshine fund, but because it had fewer than 200 investors, he wasn’t required to divulge the names of his clients.As a boss, Xu was obsessive and untiring. Friends say he had no hobbies or interests outside the stock market. He arrived at Zexi’s sleek Shanghai office each morning at 8:45, and often stayed until 2 a.m. From his seat at the back of the firm’s trading floor, he personally directed Zexi’s investments, even as the firm’s assets approached 30 billion renminbi. He remained intensely secretive. The firm’s researchers did not know if he had heeded their stock recommendations until they saw their performance assessments at the end of each year. “Xu Xiang is always trading,” a longtime friend said. “If he’s not trading, he’s thinking about trading.”In meetings, Xu was glued to two smartphones, one displaying market prices and the other pinging with news about economic developments. He preferred to let others speak, and when he did interject, his answers were brief and dismissive. One Western fund manager said he seemed as if he was “bored of answering questions and would rather get back to trading.” He dressed informally, sometimes in tracksuits.As he had in Ningbo, Xu regularly poured billions into big, risky bets that always seemed impeccably timed. He focused on buying stocks that were either small and relatively unknown or sinking toward bottom-dollar price, then pulled out as soon as he made a profit. The strategy was partly a reaction to the peculiarities of the Chinese market. Practices common among United States hedge funds, like short-selling stocks to protect against downturns in the market (in other words, hedging), are restricted in China, where regulators treat them with suspicion. Instead, fund managers rely almost exclusively on buying and selling stocks at just the right time.The results Xu achieved were unbelievable — perhaps literally. Between March 2010 and October 2015, Zexi’s Fund No. 1 produced a return of more than 3,270 percent, even while the Shanghai Stock Exchange index grew by only 11.6 percent. Other Zexi funds grew at similarly startling rates. By 2015, Xu controlled at least 28 billion renminbi, the most of any Chinese hedge-fund manager. An adoring public, aspiring to his rags-to-riches tale, called him “China’s Carl Icahn,” “Xu the Legend” and “Hedge Fund Brother No. 1.”Throughout his career, Xu’s wild success provided fodder for rumors and speculation: about his access to insider information, his un­canny timing and the possible government connections of his wealthy (and entirely anonymous) clients. The most persistent rumor held that Xu was investing on behalf of wealthy and corrupt Shanghai-based “princelings,” the second-generation descendants of prominent Communist Party officials. These princelings, the rumors went, fed Xu inside information and protected him from prosecution; in exchange, he managed their wealth in private funds that were tailored to their needs and hid both the amount invested and the identity of the investor. These rumors had the virtue of being both entirely plausible and entirely unverifiable.In an elegant waterfront coffee house in Ningbo, I met a young stock trader who speculated about the web of political connections that had enriched and ultimately doomed Xu. “Xu was pushed onto the stage,” the trader told me, as fashionable young women toting Gucci bags and wearing Cartier watches strode past us. “There are a lot of red capitalists in Shanghai, the children of leaders and important officials. They put a lot of money into his private fund to use as their personal bank account.”By the young trader’s telling, Xu’s entire operation was a cover for this simple scheme. “Xu had seven products,” the trader told me. “The most successful are for the red capitalists. The others are rat funds” — dummy products used to drive up stock prices and enrich Xu’s clients.Nearly every one of the experts I spoke with repeated some version of the same rumor: that Xu was less a financial genius than a puppet of even larger powers. Most often, this explanation was deployed in response to a question that had been troubling observers of the Chinese financial world for months: Why hadn’t Xu stopped earlier? Rumors of his illegal methods were an open secret, and he had already built the most successful hedge fund in China, reaping billions of dollars in personal wealth in the process. Why keep going and risk a reckoning?“That goes to the investor conspiracy,” a former hedge fund researcher told me. “The people who give money to him to manage would not like to see the fund wound down.” Whether Xu had begun as a willing partner or was coerced from the start was just further speculation. “When you have someone very politically powerful and well connected coming to you who wants you to manage money for him or her,” the researcher said, “then it’s sort of difficult to say no, right?”If Xu was indeed tied to figures in the country’s opaque political elite, his carefully protected anonymity was all the more crucial. In a nation where political and economic control are inseparable, and where the flashiest are often the first to fall, remaining unknown can serve as a survival technique. Even the true value of his assets remains a mystery. In 2015, the Hurun Rich List ranked Xu as the 188th-richest person in China, with a value of $2.2 billion. But that figure does not necessarily include all of Xu’s earnings from privately managed funds, the money he controlled through family members or assets stashed outside Zexi. Xu’s true wealth was unknown and unknowable.As Zexi grew and thrived, the fund began to operate through murkier market channels. Buying and selling shares was no longer adequate to keep the empire growing apace. Xu needed a new business model.In late 2010, he began operating through a network of shell companies and affiliated investment funds with near-identical names, purchasing ownership stakes in companies. He took on the role of the activist investor, padding corporate boards with his associates, who would then implement investor-friendly policies — particularly dividend payouts.Between 2010 and 2014, Zexi invested in 45 companies that issued dividends — more companies than the average Chinese hedge fund had invested in altogether during that period. “That strategy was quite unique,” the China-based Western fund manager told me. “Maybe in part because there are only a few managers who can pull that off.” But Xu had the leverage and the connections. A company’s performance or fundamentals did not seem to concern him; if he could find a few winning stocks, he could use his tactics to ride them to huge profits. Zexi would use dividend payouts to purchase additional shares in the company, which it could then sell when prices rose, netting millions more in profits.To execute this scheme, Xu relied on a network of trusted proxies. Two of the most important were his parents. As executives at Zexi and controlling shareholders at several related companies, Xu’s mother and father helped direct billions in investment in their son’s name. They also ran many of the companies that made up Xu’s secret empire. Through a Zexi-affiliated fund, Xu’s father owned a large share of Ningbo Zhongbai, a department store company based in Xu’s hometown. Other corporations, like an unprofitable apparel chain called Shanghai Metersbonwe Fashion & Accessories, were run by friends and allies.The stock rout last summer coincided with the apex of both Xu’s success and his notoriety. The government’s response to the crisis was swift and heavy-handed. Large shareholders were prohi­bited from selling listed stocks; I.P.O.s were halted, and state-run institutions were ordered to maintain their positions or to buy shares. The government also mobilized a “national team” of brokers and investors, backed by up to three trillion renminbi in state capital, to purchase shares and raise prices.But while the rest of the market was collapsing, Xu continued to thrive. From the beginning of 2015, one of Zexi’s funds grew by 357 percent, ranking first among 1,649 funds in China. Another grew by 187 percent. All five publicly listed funds had growth of at least 20 percent during three weeks of the crash in mid-June.Xu benefited from seemingly miraculous luck and timing, according to The South China Morning Post. At least three of the stocks that Zexi held most heavily were purchased en masse by the “national team.” More remarkable still, all the funds run by Xu seemed to exit the stock market at just the right moment, when it briefly re­bounded during the late summer before plummeting again. By the end of the summer, the annual return on his funds was more than 200 percent.But as the market dried up, Xu became a target. In September, a social-media post implicating Zexi in corruption and insider trading went viral on the Chinese Internet. The post, written anony­mously, claimed that Zexi had conspired with Citic Securities, a powerful state-owned investment house, to direct buyers toward Shanghai Metersbonwe Fashion & Accessories, which saw its share prices surge during the worst of the market rout. Zexi denied that Xu had worked with Citic to manipulate the price of Metersbonwe, but the arrest of several Citic executives that fall only fueled more speculation.The same post provided a possible motive for the swindle. It began when a Shanghai princeling who held shares of Metersbonwe complained to Xu about the stock’s low price during the summer rout. Xu called in a favor at Citic Securities, and in a matter of weeks the “national team” purchased 15 percent of the company’s total shares in circulation, sending prices soaring. The C.S.R.C. noticed the incident and began investigating. Almost immediately, the government placed restrictions on Xu’s ability to travel outside the country.Nine days later, Xu was fleeing his grandmother’s birthday party, trying to reach Shanghai. The timing was not coincidental. A special group organized by the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection was about to begin a top-to-bottom review of the activities and leadership of the C.S.R.C. Taking down Xu — especially in public, and with photographic evidence — was a display of force and competence from a government battered by a summer of bad economic news. “In China,” one fund manager told me, “the compromising and bargaining is in the execution of the law, not the formulation. The government is using this case to show that from now on, they will enforce the law.”Xu himself seemed to sense the end coming. A year before his arrest, in November 2014, he moved to Beijing and opened an office less than half a mile from the headquarters of the C.S.R.C. According to colleagues, the move was the start of a yearlong effort by Xu to use his connections and money to avoid a reckoning. But despite his billions, Xu was an ordinary man from a poor family. By itself, Xu’s market malfeasance might have been enough to spell his downfall; that he was said to be protected by some of the same corrupt officials targeted by the anticorruption push meant there was no escape.Xu Xiang remains in detention in an undisclosed facility somewhere in Beijing. Months after his capture, the only detail confirmed by the Chinese government is that he has been detained for insider trading and stock manipulation. There has been no word of a trial, no taped confession, no formal charges or publicly disclosed evidence of wrongdoing. In his absence, Zexi has crumbled. Xu was Zexi; without him, the magic is gone.In the months since the crash, the Chinese government has instituted a sweeping crackdown on illegal practices in the financial markets. “There are many, many, many, many, many other managers in the market who could be apprehended for the same reasons,” the Western fund manager told me. Xu proved an irresistible target not because of his own malfeasance, but because he offered a path to an even larger target — perhaps the clique of Shanghai princelings. “If you’re going to knock somebody down, first you take out the whole row of people around them, the people who support them,” the fund manager said. “You tighten the noose around them.”From the beginning of 2015 through September of that year, 34 companies listed on the Chinese stock market reported officials as either missing or under investigation by the authorities, according to Bloomberg News. As of late November, Xinhua, the official Chinese news agency, had identified at least 16 major finance industry figures tied directly to the stock-market cleanup who were either arrested, under investigation or assisting the authorities. In early January, the chairman of Metersbonwe joined the list, disappearing without explanation for more than a week.“The level of corruption is beyond your imagi­nation,” a prominent Beijing-based hedge-fund manager told me over coffee several weeks after Xu’s arrest. Like all my sources, this fund manager was extremely nervous about being interviewed. The irony of the crackdown was clear: Though a lack of transparency had clearly shattered the market, the Chinese government was responding with a crushing clampdown on information. The fund manager insisted that I could not use his name, for fear of being blacklisted or arrested. The ubiquity of wrongdoing, he said, did not make anyone safe. “No one knows who will be next. If they want to catch you, they will catch you.”The term used to describe what happened to these executives — shilian, “lost contact” — has become a coy euphemism for the Communist Party’s holding individuals indefinitely for questioning or arrest. The campaign was partly a reaction to widespread anger within China: The people, the party and the government all wanted someone to blame for the loss of face — and money. Xu became the emblem of ubiquitous financial corruption. “There will be new tricks,” the former regulatory official says. “But none will be as outrageous as his.”For China’s would-be tycoons, the stakes of the crackdown go far beyond the market. During my conversation with the Beijing-based fund manager, which took place in a cafe on a university campus, a young man wandered toward us, admiring a pair of paintings on a nearby wall. The manager went quiet, and shifted uncomfortably, watching the potential eavesdropper from the corner of his eye. When the young man had passed, the manager turned back to me. “In China,” he said, “the losing side doesn’t get to sleep at night.”
Sometime in 1967, William Christenberry made a photograph of Coleman’s Cafe in Greensboro, Ala. It is a straightforward frontal shot of a clapboard building made of weathered wood. The building has a porch with four posts. Above the porch, a white board with faded lettering reads, “Coleman’s Cafe,” and above that is a round Coca-Cola sign. Christenberry returned to photograph this building every year for almost three decades. By the time he shot the same building again in 1971, the sign had been changed — the establishment’s name and the Coca-Cola sign now appeared in a single board — and one of the vertical posts on the porch was gone. By 1978, the roof was in disrepair, and the building had been painted red. By 1980, the missing post had been replaced with a slender plank, but the sign was gone.Christenberry, who died last year, was born in Tuscaloosa, Ala., in 1936, and though he later moved to Washington, D.C., where he lived for decades, his work centered on yearly returns to Alabama. Some of his photographs were stand-alone shots of a given subject. But he often created series by returning to the same sites, whose appearances were subtly inflected from year to year by the cycle of the seasons, or fundamentally altered, either by neglect or renovation.Christenberry focused on those aspects of the landscape that evoked vernacular building styles, especially in Hale County, where he spent much of his childhood. Walker Evans’s influence is apparent: a scrupulous realism with no trace of irony. Christenberry was drawn to shacks, simple churches, barns and makeshift buildings, but also to the red dust and wild vegetation of the region, especially the kudzu that grew ferociously on the roadsides and gradually reclaimed whatever was left undefended.Each element in a landscape has its own history. Christenberry appointed himself historian of a number of sites in Hale County, not because they were of great importance (they almost never were) but because they called out to him and elicited from him a sense of responsibility. His photographs collectively showed something of the passage of time in his corner of the American South.The meaning of a photograph changes when it is set next to another to which it is related. Usually, photographs in a series depict different subjects, so they vary from one another in obvious ways: The lens of the camera has been pointed at something else and the resulting image solves a different visual problem. A photo essay that contains, say, eight images is typically expected to present us with eight different scenes. The photographs might have been made at different times, but they don’t interfere with one another and might as well have been shot simultaneously. This is true even in the case of taxonomic or typological photographs like those made by Bernd and Hilla Becher, in which the “subject” changes in undramatic ways but in which the point is the group and not the single image. Something else is happening in series like Christenberry’s of rural and small-town Alabama: What is different is not the subject but the time it was photographed. Looking at such a series confirms that when you make one photograph and, some time later, make another of the same thing, what is inside the frame changes. With the passage of time, you no longer have “the same thing.”Time is photography’s illusion. Almost every photograph appears instantaneous. But of course, there’s no such thing as “instantaneous”: All fragments of time have a length. In a photograph, the time during which the light is refracted by the lens, enters the aperture and is allowed to rest on the photosensitive surface could be 1/125th of a second, one-eighth of a second, half a second, a whole minute, much more or much less. What is intriguing about a practice like Christenberry’s is that it employs time elsewhere in the photograph too: as a source of narrative. His use of intervals — intervals that, in his case, can last a year or more — to construct a series is related to the approach taken by the Italian photographer Guido Guidi.Guidi’s main subject is the terrain of postindustrial Northern Italy. In 2007, he made a photograph of the Savio River, which flows through his home city, Cesena. In the photograph, the river is flat and muddy and seems to be passing under a bridge, whose brick wall we can see on one side. The photo was taken on a bright day, with some sections of both the river and the bridge in the full glare of the sun, and other sections in shadow. The shadow of the bridge over the water is angled, so that the bright section looks like an arrowhead. But there’s a second photograph, of pretty much the same scene, with a similarly muted color scheme, except that the bright section is now larger. And it turns out there’s a third photograph as well. Again, the scene is the same, but the arrowhead is even larger. We surmise that the three photographs were taken in a single afternoon, as the sun moved across the surface of this unremarkable stretch of the Savio River. Something about the serenity of this movement, or at least our apprehension of the photographer’s loving patience in capturing it, is beautiful, more beautiful than any single photograph in the series.The photos I’ve been describing have in common an affective approach to landscape. In this way they are different from other timed photographic studies, like Eadweard Muybridge’s pioneering studies of human and animal movement or Harold Edgerton’s strobe-lit experiments. Closer in concept is Zoe Leonard’s untitled four-photograph work, made up of repeated depictions of a pair of trees in a New York housing complex. Leonard noticed how plastic bags, floating up on the wind, had become snagged on the branches of the trees, and how the number of bags would vary over time. In the course of several months, she made photographs of the trees, with four or five or a dozen bags hanging from them.Leonard’s project, like Christenberry’s and Guidi’s, implies physical return. Between one exposure and the next, time passes, life goes on and the artist re-encounters his or her altered subject. Guidi’s camera, set on a tripod, captures a scene with some of its elements exactly repeated. But in Christenberry’s and Leonard’s work, there’s an imprecision in the placement of the camera, an imprecision both natural and welcome that gives us easy spot-the-difference variations between one photo and the next. This inexactness of framing helps us understand that what makes these images valuable is not the differences among them, but the way a pair of stills can, simply and elegantly, pin down a central concern of human life: the passage of time.Jem Southam, an English photographer whose projects also unfold over many years, takes a similar approach. Southam often works on rockfalls and landslides, registering significant changes on cliffs and coasts in England and France. But some works in his series also record the barely perceptible movement of eroded material down a slope, the process geologists term “creep.” The intervals between Southam’s gorgeous large-format photographs allow for both radical changes and subdued ones, illustrating that the earth has a different sense of time than we do. Why does Southam revisit the cliffs of East Sussex? What drew Zoe Leonard to Manhattan’s Avenue A? Why did William Christenberry keep returning to Hale County? What gives Guido Guidi faith in Cesena? I can’t help sensing in these works, which photographically verify the passing hours or days or years, a quiet gratitude about the simple fact of return.After a recent spell of travel, I returned home to Sunset Park, Brooklyn, where I have lived for the past nine years. I began to take photographs of the park, not for the first time, but for the first time in an attentive way. The naturalist John Muir once wrote, “Most people are on the world, not in it.” I went back to the same sections, day after day, the same leaf-littered stretch of lawn, the same work site, the same stands of trees. I went in different weather conditions, in snow and rain and bright sunshine, and I went at different times of day. Shooting roll after roll, I began to accumulate a highly personal composite image of the park.The seasons turned. The trees changed radically or not at all. At a time when politics made the flow of time feel hectic, shooting in the park slowed me down, and using film slowed me down further. I was looking at foliage in green and an infinity of browns, as well as the fine shock of dazzling white after a blizzard, the silvery grays after rain. In contrast to my usual approach to photography — selecting single images from shooting done far away from home — the photos from Sunset Park made me more inclined to consider unspectacular images part of the work. That work continues. On any given day, I pick up a camera and a roll or two of film and walk to a small grove in a small park in Brooklyn. The grove is there waiting, and I am always grateful at the reunion.
Reports of lost luggage have hit a record low in the United States. There were about two accounts of mishandled bags for every 1,000 passengers in November, according to the Department of Transportation. In previous years, there were many months when the mishandled bag rate was double that. If you have been longing to indulge in more refined luggage, now may be the time to spring for something new.Whether you check them or carry them on, today’s bags are stylish and high-tech, be they shiny spinners from the model Ines de la Fressange and the French label Lipault, or sleek suitcases from the newcomer Raden with USB ports to charge your smartphone and tablet. And for something, shall we say, unconventional, there’s Modobag, a motorized suitcase that you can sit on and ride through the airport like a scoot-along toy. Below, a look at some of the more upscale innovations.LIPAULT PARIS AND INES DE LA FRESSANGE PARIS Ms. Fressange, a model, writer and the owner of a clothing and home goods boutique in Paris, has teamed up with Lipault for a smart-looking collection of luggage and accessories in the colors of the French flag, including deep navy blue and bright red spinners (starting at $201), backpacks ($72 for the XS) and a duffel bag ($95). Like Lipault’s luggage, the pieces are chic yet sporty. Smooth with a faint sheen, they stand out without any frippery. Available beginning Feb. 21.LOUIS VUITTON AND MARC NEWSON The French luxury house collaborated with Mr. Newson, an Australian-born industrial designer, on a collection of rolling leather luggage in saturated hues — with names such as citron, noir, coquelicot, piment, saphir, fuchsia, indigo — that call to mind summer in the Mediterranean. (Also available in the classic LV Monogram canvas and Damier Graphite canvas.) With clean lines and corners and handles covered in matching cowhide, these suitcases (starting at around $2,660 online) look as if they ought to be displayed in a posh living room rather than pulled through an airport.TUMI V3 AND 19 DEGREE Last year, Tumi introduced its lightest hard-sided collection to date. Known as V3, the rolling luggage ($425 to $625) comes in colors with names like hunter, magenta, Pacific blue and waterfall stripe. The 19 Degree collection, which is newer, is Tumi’s first aluminum ($995 to $1,395) luggage collection (also available in polycarbonate). Monogramming is free on Tumi.com.HARTMANN 7R COLLECTION Those looking for a little flash will find it in the rolling luggage from this veteran label’s 7R and 7R Master collections (from $650 to $1,195 for the largest 7R Master). Hartmann has been around since 1877 and, like Tumi, was acquired in recent years by one of the world’s largest luggage companies, Samsonite. The 7R collection has classic leather details, but your eye is likely to be drawn to the notice-me metallic shells in pale blue, silver and gold. (And yes, the bags are available in black, too, though that’s hardly the point.)EBBY RANE 12 IN 1 QUARTERMASTER Those who long for the days when it was commonplace to travel with a trunk full of clothes and accessories may want to check out this Canadian brand’s Quartermaster, which was rolled out to the United States over the last year or so. Ebby Rane only makes carry-on luggage, and inside its Quartermaster rolling suitcases ($995) are 10 separate containers, including a vanity case, jewelry case, cosmetics case, two shoe sleeves, a bath or beach bag, a “knickers” bag, a laundry bag, a tech case, a liquids case and a dust cover. The Quartermaster 12 in 1 also comes with a cognac leather clutch bag. For men, there’s the black Quartermaster Homme ($925). Later this year, Ebby Rane plans to introduce soft, leather-trimmed bags for men and women that can slip onto the handle of a Quartermaster to store additional carry-on items.RADEN This brand, introduced last year, makes high-tech, lightweight suitcases as glossy as hard candy (though you can choose a matte version, if you prefer). Each bag has a handle that doubles as a scale to determine the bag’s weight; proximity sensors that alert you when your case is coming down the luggage carousel; and not one, but two USB ports, so you can charge a smartphone or tablet. A companion app provides information like the weather, security line wait times and your suitcase’s weight and proximity to you. The suitcases are available in two sizes ($295 and $395, or $595 for a set) and colors including whimsical options such as light pink, light purple, gold and bronze. Alas, when you try to purchase many of them on the company’s website, you’ll find them on “presale” or you’ll have to join a waiting list.AWAY Another relative newcomer, this brand — founded by two former executives at Warby Parker, the vintage-inspired eyeglasses company — offers bags that can charge portable devices yet don’t look as if they’re from the year 2025. Those who want to fly under the radar will appreciate The Carry-On ($225) and The Bigger Carry-On ($245), low-key looking suitcases in subdued neutrals with a USB port so you can charge devices like your phone or tablet. It’s worth noting that early adopters of smart luggage from Raden, Away and other brands such as Bluesmart may find that the battery packs inside the suitcases are unfamiliar to Transportation Security Administration workers. That could get you stopped while trying to breeze through airport security. Aware of potential pitfalls, Away includes a “T.S.A.-approved screwdriver” to open the battery case and remove the battery (which can be found by unzipping the lining of the luggage) if necessary.RIMOWA ELECTRONIC TAG The Rimowa Electronic Tag bag (from $695 to $1,725) looks like its parallel-grooved brethren, but it allows travelers to tag and check their luggage from home using a smartphone. A companion app personalizes the bag’s electronic tag, allowing it to communicate with an airline app. Then flight data is sent to the luggage via Bluetooth and appears on a display screen on the bag. When arriving at the airport, the bag is already tagged and ready for drop off. Of course, all of this requires cooperation from the airlines. So far Lufthansa is the major partner, though the bag is also available for EVA Air flights, and Rimowa is testing the technology with other airlines, including United.The Sweethome, a product recommendation website owned by The New York Times Company, has additional information on the best travel backpacks and the best full-size, carry-on luggage.
In 1986, Hervé Pierre was a fashion student in Paris when he learned that he had been commissioned to whip up a dress for the reproduction of the Statue of Liberty on the Pont de Grenelle. “It was the first dress I made in my life, 25 feet across,” Mr. Pierre said wryly, “and I’m just speaking of the width of the lady’s bosom.”Fast-forward three decades to find the designer dressing another icon, this one more animated, and certainly more svelte.She is, of course, Melania Trump, a beacon at the inaugural balls in Washington last Friday night, sheathed in a vanilla silk crepe evening column that Mr. Pierre had confected expressly for her.On Monday, having returned to New York with his client, Mr. Pierre sat in a conference room at The New York Times recounting the chain of events that had brought him to this moment. He was pinching himself, quite literally. “I still have goose bumps,” he confided.Spirited, even jovial, but otherwise low-key, Mr. Pierre wore a favorite black velvet jacket from Uniqlo accented with an Hermès scarf. A spry daisy, something of a signature, shone on his lapel.“I wore it at the inauguration,” he said. “It is me; it gives just a bit of light. And it is easier for the Secret Service guy. When he sees it, he can say: ‘Oh, it’s the guy with the daisy. Let him pass.’”Mr. Pierre, 51, a former creative director at Carolina Herrera, has, as he tells it, come a long way. His journey to the White House began on Jan. 3, with an 8 a.m. text from Mrs. Trump, who had learned of him through friends, but whom he had never met.“I have a favor to ask,” he recalled that she wrote. “ Would it be possible in this kind of time frame for you to design my gown?”The request staggered him. “I almost dropped the phone,” he said. Mrs. Trump had presented him with a brief, its key words being “sleek,” “modern” and “form-fitting.” By 4:30 that afternoon, the two were animatedly poring over sketches at her home in Trump Tower.“I saved the best for the last,” Mr. Pierre said slyly. “Of course that was the one she chose.”The next day he presented his client with outsize fabric swatches, among them the length of six-ply silk crepe she finally settled on. “It was so heavy and beautiful, it was almost rude,” Mr. Pierre said, a catch in his voice.Throughout the fittings, he recalled, Mrs. Trump remained even-tempered and singularly focused. “Each time I met with her, we were alone,” he said. “I never saw a maid. And never once did she look at her phone.”The gown was conceived from the start to reflect a meeting of minds. The challenge, Mr. Pierre said, was to create “a modern look with laser-sharp tailoring, something hard, almost mean.”“But I didn’t want a caricature,” he said. “Nothing Thierry Mugler. And I didn’t want a lot of bling.” Nor, he added, did he want the gown to be so fitted “that you would need a shoehorn and a tube of lube to get into it.”Mrs. Trump, a former model, who impressed the designer with her command of fashion argot, had her own ideas. She wanted the small band sleeves of her décolleté-baring dress to form a straight line from shoulder to shoulder. He pressed for a curvier outline but ultimately changed his mind.She also envisioned a slender white ribbon encircling her waist. He argued for claret, and prevailed. “Fashion is a little bit like cooking,” said Mr. Pierre, whose father was a chef in Sancerre in central France, where the family lived. “The red had a purpose, like when you put something very spicy in a dish, and it takes over a little bit of the flavor.”After several decades in the fashion trade, he ought to know. Still, to all but the most clued-in insiders, the first lady appeared to have plucked him from obscurity. Among women shopping on Madison Avenue or perusing the racks in Beverly Hills, Calif., his name would likely ring no bells. Yet in retrospect Mr. Pierre, who has lived and worked in New York for 22 years and is a United States citizen, was clearly the man for the job.He created his first independent collection at Balmain in the 1980s, a period during which he designed costumes for the ballet as well. In the mid-1990s he decamped for New York, where he worked with Bill Blass, Vera Wang and Oscar de la Renta before being named creative director of Carolina Herrera. During his 14-year tenure there, Mrs. Herrera was like a monarch, he said. “I was Prince Philip walking always two steps behind her.”He worked discreetly behind the scenes, making clothes for Laura Bush and Michelle Obama, among other luminaries. Mr. Pierre, who likes to boast that he has designed in his day for every first lady, left his post at the fashion house last February.“There was a new president,” he said simply. “They wanted a change, and I was not part of that.”Contacted this week, Mrs. Herrera offered a homage. “Hervé is amazingly talented,” she said. “After working together for so many years, we share the same aesthetic.”Since his departure, Mr. Pierre has worked primarily with private clients. Mrs. Trump’s inauguration gown, with its undulant strip of gazar at the bodice and a slit that traveled saucily from hip to hem, is the first important dress he has created under his own name.Once its image was circulated, Mr. Pierre was overwhelmed with inquiries. “My phone has not stopped ringing,” he said, marveling at his turn of fortune. For the moment, though, he does not plan to introduce a label.“If I work in shadows, it’s because I know how to park my ego,” he said. “You can’t have an ego designing for the first lady.”As for the gown, it was a triumph. Flying back to New York on Sunday night, he and Mrs. Trump each studied their Twitter accounts, he recalled. “What’s your feedback?” she asked him at one point.“I told her, ‘Mrs. Trump, I’m trying to find a single bad comment about the dress, and I cannot.’”“I can’t find one either,” she replied. “I guess we nailed it.”
In Philadelphia, before the first game of the N.B.A. season, Russell Westbrook worked through his warm-up routine. He was loose and laughing but — as always — precise. Westbrook’s internal clock had driven him to be the first player out on the court, a full three hours before tipoff, and he was performing his routine in front of a largely empty arena. He started with chip-ins and free throws, easy stuff to get his body going, and then moved on to his signature shot: the pull-up jumper. Westbrook’s pull-up is one of modern basketball’s most recognizable weapons — if not yet quite on the level of Kareem’s skyhook or Jordan’s turnaround or Dirk’s one-legged fadeaway, then at least at the edge of that territory. The move is a surprise attack. Westbrook is unreasonably fast and aggressive, a flying, screaming whirlwind of ferocious highlight dunks, and he charges the hoop with so much raging menace that defenders have no choice but to scramble backward to try to stop him. That’s when he hits them with the pull-up: He stops instantly and — while the defender’s momentum continues to drag him backward — leaps perfectly straight into the air, like a fighter pilot ejecting from his cockpit to escape an explosion, except that Russell Westbrook is the explosion: He is the explosion and the control all at once. The whole thing seems to defy the laws of motion. Growing up in Los Angeles, Westbrook practiced this move so many tens of thousands of times on the playground that he and his father referred to it as “the cotton shot,” because they always expected it to go through the net.Now, in Philadelphia, in front of the ushers and ball boys, Westbrook practiced his cotton shot. He backed up almost to half-court, squared his huge shoulders, dipped, charged, stopped, rose, fired — and missed. He backed up and tried again. Again he missed.It was only warm-ups, but everything surrounding Westbrook in that moment seemed historic, and the misses struck me as a bad sign. I watched him shoot 11 times from the same spot and make only three. At one point, he missed five in a row. Russell Westbrook was cold. The cotton shot, at a very inconvenient moment, seemed to have turned to iron.As season openers go, this game was unusually loaded with expectations. It was a sort of Independence Day: the first game of Westbrook’s professional career without Kevin Durant as his teammate. For eight seasons, Westbrook and Durant were one of the great inscrutable duos in all of sports, superstars with wildly opposing personalities and playing styles, overachieving together in Oklahoma City, one of the smallest markets in the N.B.A. Durant was basketball’s greatest prodigy since LeBron James, a mild-mannered, long-limbed scoring genius with a baby face and a golden jump shot. Westbrook was the scowling underdog on a never-ending mission to prove the entire universe wrong.On the scale of creative tension, Westbrook-Durant fell somewhere between Lennon-McCartney and Goofus-Gallant. They clashed and blended, encouraged and diminished one another, in ways that were hard to parse. Durant led the league in scoring; Westbrook led the league in turnovers. Durant was the metronome; Westbrook the guitar solo. Durant was the scenic cliff; Westbrook the waterfall raging primally over the top of it. Occasionally, TV cameras would catch the two of them squabbling during a timeout, but they always appeared at the media table together afterward to insist that they were friends and brothers. Durant once called Westbrook his “hype man” — the Flavor Flav to his Chuck D. The whole relationship was a puzzle. Were they real friends, work friends, secret rivals, frenemies, secret real-world frenemies? On sports TV, Westbrook and Durant inspired as much talking-head bloviation as a celebrity affair.The most surprising thing about the partnership, however, was how well it worked. Westbrook and Durant turned the Oklahoma City Thunder, against all odds, into one of the reigning powers in the N.B.A. In 2012, when both stars were still only 23 — an age at which most players are just beginning to find their footing — the Thunder made it all the way to the finals. In a six-year span, they reached the Western Conference finals four times. (It took major injuries to keep them out.) The only thing Durant and Westbrook never did together was win a championship. They came agonizingly close, including last season, when they held a 3-1 lead in the playoffs against the mighty Golden State Warriors. But they never could quite push over the top. Still, it seemed inevitable that their day would eventually come.Until last July, when Durant blew everyone’s minds by leaving Westbrook, suddenly and gracelessly, to join the aforementioned Warriors, making their superteam even more super. Just like that, Westbrook was on his own. The hype man was out front. And anyone who knew anything about basketball was dying to see what would happen next. It seemed less like a question of sports than a Zen koan: What is the sound of one hand clapping?If anyone could answer that, could explore its full range of sonic possibilities, it was Russell Westbrook. The sound might be wonderful or terrible, or wonderfully terrible, or it might be nothing at all. The only certainty was that we were all about to hear it, at maximum volume, for an entire season.That night in Philadelphia, Westbrook’s poor warm-up shooting carried over into the game, not only for himself but also for his teammates. He was setting players up for easy shots — layups and open threes — but they kept blowing them. When Westbrook tried on his own, his luck was no better. He missed tough contested jumpers, drove into crowds of defenders and was blocked, forced passes and threw the ball away. The 76ers were widely expected to be the worst team in the league this season, but after five minutes they led the Thunder 16-5. The Philadelphia crowd was going crazy.“He scared!” the people behind me kept screaming.This storm of negativity triggered one of those Westbrook moments when he seems to pop out of space-time. Off a Sixers turnover, Westbrook took the ball near half-court, charged toward the rim, drew a hard foul and still somehow exploded forward, twisting between two defenders, to toss in a layup from a steep angle. He stood there for a second after the whistle, berating the crowd. A courtside fan — a bespectacled white man in a bulging Allen Iverson jersey — screamed back at Westbrook and flipped him off with both hands.Westbrook’s face, in happy moments, is smooth and boyish, with deep dimples and a classic beauty mark on his cheek; his facial hair grows in tiny sparse wisps that suggest an eighth grader who hasn’t yet learned how to shave. (Westbrook claims that he has never actually shaved.) But now his sweet face changed. The bright, round eyes narrowed and darkened; the lips twisted into a sneer. Westbrook, when he needs it, has weapons-grade powers of stinkface, and he unleashed their full nuclear payload on the fan. He pointed him out to the referees in disgusted disbelief. Security came to escort the man away. Westbrook was still shaking his head in fury as he stepped up to make the free throw, and on the next few possessions he seemed lit up by anger, driving and passing and scoring so relentlessly that the fans behind me stopped taunting him and grew quiet, then started complaining about the man in the Iverson jersey, asking why the hell he had thought it was a good idea to antagonize Westbrook in the first place. Animated by rage, Westbrook carried his team, and by halftime the score was tied. Westbrook walked off the floor cursing fiercely.The second half brought plenty more to be angry about. No one but Westbrook could create anything, and no one could finish the things he created. After OKC’s center, Steven Adams, managed to miss an easy alley-oop Westbrook had set him up for, the crowd started chanting: “K.D. LEFT YOU!” (clap, clap, clap-clap-clap) “K.D. LEFT YOU!” So Westbrook started shooting, and — just as he had in warm-ups — he missed and he missed, but still he didn’t stop. At all times, Westbrook surfs right on the perilous line between confidence and recklessness, and tonight he was surfing and wiping out hard, only to get back up and immediately wipe out again.With just under three minutes left and the Thunder trailing by 3 points, Westbrook dribbled hard at the basket and, without any apparent shadow of self-doubt, stopped to rise for a pull-up jumper — precisely the shot I had watched him clank so many times before the game. Now, however, he made it, and then with around a minute left he did it again, giving the Thunder the lead, and in the end, as the crowd gurgled on its own disappointment, the Thunder won by 6 points. Westbrook’s final stat line was dangerously overstuffed: 32 points, 12 rebounds, nine assists. He should probably have had closer to 15 assists, but that stat depends largely on the skill of the players around you, and with this group, nine seemed like a minor miracle.After the game, Westbrook sat at his locker wearing only a towel, with the veins bulging out of his legs so hard he looked like a map of the human circulatory system. (Joe Sharpe, the Thunder’s head trainer, told me that Westbrook could probably be a bodybuilder if he wanted to.) Slowly, while the media watched in silence, Westbrook started getting dressed. He put on underwear covered with the words “Why Not?” — Westbrook’s personal slogan, which he invokes to justify everything from his fashion choices to his shot selection. (As he tweeted once, apropos of nothing: “WHYNOT?!!! #whynot #whynot”) He pulled on a pair of skinny black jeans, ripped at the knees, then a bright yellow sweatshirt that said, on the front, “Paranormal: Out of the Ordinary.” Over this he put on a denim jacket.It was, I thought, an interesting outfit.But there was one more piece, and it was the coup de grâce: Over his jeans, Westbrook pulled on a kilt.He rubbed some Vaseline on his face and turned to face the media for an official round of questions. As usual, he spoke to the reporters without ever looking at them. It was as if he were being interviewed by the locker-room door, with which he maintained fierce eye contact, with occasional follow-up questions from the ceiling tiles or the carpet.Why are you wearing a kilt? someone asked.“Why not?” Westbrook said.And so began life after Kevin Durant.Westbrook’s season has a chance to be historic because of one magical statistic: the triple-double. A triple-double means, simply, that a player has reached double figures in three major categories during the course of a game — almost always points, rebounds and assists. If that sounds like dry math, it is not. In the N.B.A., the triple-double is a sacred threshold of excellence.Triple-doubles are difficult and rare. You don’t stumble into one — it takes a special kind of player, a dominant generalist. Even the outliers capable of achieving them tend to get only a handful per year; Magic Johnson, the modern king of the stat, got 18 in his best season. A triple-double is not a statistical parlor trick, like hitting for the cycle in baseball. It actually captures the essence of basketball, the way the game allows every player to do everything on the floor whenever the opportunity arises. To get a triple-double, a player has to control the action physically, strategically and socially; he has to become a funnel through which the energy of an entire game pours.Westbrook has always had the potential to ring up triple-doubles, and in past seasons he has put together impressive flurries of them. This season, he has gone bananas. Some games, it feels as if Westbrook’s stats are moving in fast-forward — as if he is pulling numbers out of wormholes that only he can access. One night, Westbrook generated 10 assists in only 15 minutes; another, he finished with 26 points, 11 rebounds and 22 assists — totals not seen since Johnson himself. For years, the popular narrative stressed how much Durant was sacrificing to fit in next to Westbrook. It has become clear that the opposite was certainly just as true.Westbrook is now playing against history. The Holy Grail of triple-doubling is not just to pile up a ridiculous number of them but to actually average a triple-double for an entire season. This has only happened once, in 1961-62, when Oscar Robertson averaged 30.8 points, 12.5 rebounds, and 11.4 assists — numbers straight from the mouth of God. Until recently, his feat seemed as untouchable as DiMaggio’s 56-game hitting streak or Wilt’s 100-point game. Matching Robertson’s record is doubly tricky because not only was he an aberrant superfreak, he also happened to play in an unusually fast era, when teams flew up and down the court generating extra possessions in which to rack up gaudy statistics. Today’s players are limited by the modern game’s slow pace. Even LeBron James, the greatest player of his generation and someone whose gifts seem precision-engineered to produce triple-doubles — size for rebounding, vision for assists, speed and agility for scoring — has never come close to averaging one for an entire season. That’s how basketball works: There are unavoidable trade-offs, pragmatic allocations of resources. Averaging a triple-double is like having a helicopter that is also a boat that can also write the Great American Novel. It is more than just an engineering impossibility — it is an existential cheat.When Durant left last summer, some fans speculated that Westbrook might have a chance to pull this madness off. Rational people, myself included, responded with scornful laughter. It was absurd, particularly for a player who was only 6-foot-3 and surrounded by mediocre shooters. To actually average a triple-double would be not only historic and impressive but also a little weird, almost disturbing.But this is where we have to take into account Russell Westbrook’s personality.“He’s a different dude,” Anthony Morrow, a Thunder shooting guard, told me.“He’s weird, yeah,” Steven Adams said. He paused. “Bizarre.” He paused again. “Not normal.”Westbrook is not merely a superelite athlete (he is commonly referred to as the most athletic player in the N.B.A.); he also has a highly unusual mind. He is moody, stubborn, loyal and fiercely private, a control freak and a perfectionist. Outside a very small circle of family and friends, he refuses to be known. The triple-doubles, their sheer unreasonableness, are as much a reflection of this personality as of any particular basketball skills. Each time he registers one it is like a signal — a ping from the sealed box of his private mind.Russell Westbrook III grew up 1,300 miles from Oklahoma City, in Los Angeles. He was born in 1988, under the smiling moon of Magic Johnson. Westbrook’s father, Russell Westbrook Jr., worked at a bread factory and played basketball in his free time on the local playgrounds. When I asked Westbrook III what kind of player his dad was, he burst into laughter.“Player?” he said. “Player!?” It was as if he had never thought of his father that way before. “Man, they argued the whole time,” he said. “That’s what I remember most. They played for five minutes and argued for 40 minutes. All day.”Westbrook’s father was strict and devoted, determined above all to keep his family out of the way of trouble. When Westbrook showed an interest in basketball, his father devised endless drills that they ran through, just the two of them, for hours at a time. They focused on the midrange jumper, the cotton shot, practicing it off one foot and two feet, on the move and standing still. Westbrook learned to identify all the possible ways you can mess the shot up: being off balance, moving too fast, not having your feet set. “A lot of times, I make it when those things are not right,” he said. “That’s all my dad. That’s all him and myself, basically.”Westbrook constantly invokes his family — his parents, his brother, his wife — to explain why he is the way he is, but he won’t allow reporters to talk to them. When I asked if I could speak with his father or brother, he told me he would ask his mother instead — and then added, immediately: “My mom never talks. She never talks. She doesn’t like to talk.” (I never spoke with her.)As a high school player, Westbrook was spectacularly unheralded. He was the shortest kid on his team, not even able to dunk until his senior year. Although he already possessed most of the qualities that would eventually make him great — the crazy speed and fearlessness, the motor that never stopped — basketball was fundamentally a game of size, and Westbrook didn’t have it. A lifetime of arguing on playgrounds looked as if it might be his best case.Then came a miraculous growth spurt. Toward the end of high school, Westbrook shot up seven inches, from 5-foot-8 to 6-foot-3. Suddenly, all his intangible gifts were attached to formidable size. Westbrook was still not an elite recruit — it was too late for that — but he was good enough to earn a last-minute scholarship to U.C.L.A. after one of its star players declared unexpectedly for the N.B.A. draft. Westbrook was a bench player, a defensive specialist; his job was to enter the game and wreak havoc. During his freshman year, he averaged only nine minutes and 3 points a game. That same year, at the University of Texas, the freshman Kevin Durant was playing 36 minutes a game and averaging 26 points and 11 rebounds — by many reckonings, the greatest freshman year in N.C.A.A. basketball history.During his sophomore year, Westbrook played more of a central role at U.C.L.A., and his powerful dunks made him a hero of ESPN highlight reels. Still, no one was in danger of confusing him with Kevin Durant, who was by then winning N.B.A. Rookie of the Year. Westbrook’s second-year averages remained relatively modest — 13 points, four assists, four rebounds — but it was enough to entice the Seattle SuperSonics (soon to be, scandalously, the Oklahoma City Thunder) to take him in the 2008 N.B.A. draft. They picked him fourth, a position almost everyone else thought was a serious reach. As a Seattle Times columnist put it the day after the draft: “Equipped with two first-round picks, they came away with Westbrook and Serge Ibaka. That’s like getting two free airline tickets and booking trips to Gary, Ind., and Kosovo.” No one was more surprised on draft night than Westbrook himself, who was afraid he wasn’t going to be picked at all. “I was like: Damn, am I gonna be the only one left in the greenroom?” he told me. “This is about to be embarrassing.”In theory, in the beginning, Westbrook and Durant seemed like a perfectly complementary pair: the scrappy defensive specialist next to the once-in-a-generation scorer. Westbrook could defer to Durant on offense and cover his shortcomings on defense. Instead, Westbrook took over the team.He had few of the skills that defined a traditional point guard: panoramic vision, flawless ball-handling, a deadly outside shot. But his personality was more suited to leading than Durant’s was. This, in fact, was a major part of why the team drafted Westbrook, for his unique psychological profile: his ability to withstand crushing stress and pressure and doubt without losing confidence or focus. Many of Westbrook’s elite skills were mental, and he would need them right away. The Thunder started his rookie season 3-29, and there were serious debates about whether they were the worst team ever. Westbrook led the league in turnovers, and the team’s ownership was widely reviled for stealing the franchise from Seattle. Even when the Thunder’s fortunes changed the following season, when they made the playoffs and almost beat the world-champion Lakers, and then the following season, when Westbrook averaged 22 points a game and became an All-Star and the team made it all the way to the Western Conference finals — even then, it wasn’t particularly easy. A narrative was beginning to develop: Westbrook was a volatile, reckless ball hog, an inferior player who refused to defer to the clearly superior Durant.Mo Cheeks is the Russell Westbrook whisperer. Cheeks was a legendary 1980s point guard for the 76ers, an unheralded prospect who turned himself, through the power of scrappiness, into a recurrent All-Star and an N.B.A. champion, the point guard for Dr. J and Moses Malone and Charles Barkley. Cheeks joined the Thunder as an assistant coach in Westbrook’s second year, and Westbrook has been his special assignment ever since.Early on, Cheeks and other coaches bullied Westbrook around the floor while he dribbled to improve his ball-handling. When Westbrook had emotional outbursts in the middle of games, Cheeks was the one to talk him down. They still work together early every morning: Westbrook is always the first player to the gym, hours before practice starts, and he will pull Cheeks out of the morning coaches’ meeting so they can run through shooting and post moves.“He’s a driven man,” Cheeks told me. “He’s a very disciplined person. Never late, always on time.”I asked Cheeks if he’d ever been around a player like Westbrook.“I — I — I don’t know many with that explosiveness,” he said. “The power and the speed.”What about Barkley? Or Allen Iverson?“Charles was powerful, but he didn’t have the speed of this guy,” Cheeks said. “Iverson’s a good name. He played like that — that same ferociousness, same competitive drive.”But Iverson, infamously, was not a fan of practice, and Westbrook treats every practice as if it’s Game 7 of a playoff series. This is something that surprised Billy Donovan, the Thunder’s head coach, when he joined the organization last season. Even at the beginning of a morning walk-through, when the coaches were just trying to get everyone loosened up, Westbrook would take his first touch of the ball and explode as if he’d been shot out of a cannon to throw down a tomahawk dunk. He is like this always. “We play 82 games,” Donovan said. “There are gonna be nights when your team just doesn’t have it. Four games in five nights, you’re tired, you’re beaten down, it’s a long trip, there’s flight issues. Russell is so unique that it doesn’t happen to him. It’s nuts.”“This is my 39th year,” Cheeks said. “I’ve asked many people, and no one really has had an explanation for this guy. This guy plays with power and speed all the time. Like, all the time. This is kind of a ‘cool’ league. You don’t play like that all the time. He does it all the time. Practice. Preseason games. A lot of guys make the All-Star team, but how many have been two-time All-Star M.V.P.?”The answer is: Several, but only Russell Westbrook has been unreasonable enough to do it in consecutive years. “I don’t think I’m good enough to relax and be cool,” Westbrook told me. “Just be chillin’ and be cool.”I asked Semaj Christon, one of the Thunder’s backup point guards, what it was like to guard Westbrook in practice every day.“It’s a problem,” he said.“It’s not fun,” Anthony Morrow told me. “I done seen him literally hurt people, on offense, and it’s not an offensive foul.”In the swirling cloud of contradiction that surrounds Westbrook, one paradox stands out. He often looks, on the court, like a force of pure chaos: a wild, petulant, fire-breathing hothead. And yet he is also, especially in his personal life, relentlessly devoted to order and control. He builds his days around a series of inflexible routines: calls to his parents, a designated parking spot, morning shooting on Court 3. He expects every room to be neat and clean, at work and at home.Before games, Westbrook always eats a peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwich, and it must be prepared just so: bread cut on a diagonal, fillings spread very thin. (In Oklahoma, the team chefs know exactly how to do it, but on the road Westbrook can’t trust anyone, so he makes it himself.) Three hours before tipoff, Westbrook warms up; at T-minus-60 minutes he goes to chapel. When the pregame countdown clock hits precisely 6:17 — never a second more or less — Westbrook leaps off the Thunder’s bench and screams, “Two lines,” initiating the team’s final layup drill. I asked Westbrook if there was some kind of numerology behind this — a June 17 birthday, a favorite Bible verse. “No particular reason,” he said. “I just do it. Nothing special.”Westbrook is unbelievably attuned to the tiniest details of his shoes. He has his own personal rack at the practice facility. “Most guys, I can just bring a pair of shoes,” the Thunder’s equipment manager, Wilson Taylor, told me. “Russell wants a certain pair. He knows which are for games, which are for practice. He determines which shoes are coming on a road trip.” When Nike sent Westbrook its latest model, the Jordan 31, he wasn’t happy with the sole flexibility, so he asked the company to build him a special hybrid using the previous model’s sole. Even in that custom shoe, however, the insoles aren’t thick enough for Westbrook, so Taylor replaces each of them by hand.On the court, what looks like madness is often deliberate. Westbrook is obsessive about studying film. He insists on knowing every play from every position. Steven Adams told me that Westbrook occasionally wakes him up in the middle of the night, on the team plane, to show him an angle he might have missed. “I ain’t gonna lie, bud,” Adams said. “Watching video, especially after a game, at like 2 in the morning — it’s rather hard to stay up. He maintains the same focus. It’s amazing.”Everyone had stories like these. I got the feeling that Westbrook’s personality, the sheer intensity of his presence, is an energy field that seeps into every square centimeter of the Thunder organization. When Westbrook is around, everyone is aware of him, and he is never not around. Players arrive at the gym in the morning to find Westbrook already there. Sometimes they come in at night to put up extra shots, and Westbrook will already be there again, in the weight room, working out. You can begin to imagine how Kevin Durant, a talent with equal or greater claim to the organization but not nearly Westbrook’s force of personality, might have been driven to look for his own space elsewhere.Although everyone who works with Westbrook gushes about him endlessly — he is loyal and generous and as real as a human could ever possibly be, they say — he also has a talent for keeping the people around him slightly on edge. He has a foulmouthed, teasing charm, and a formidableness that makes people think twice, and often a third and fourth time, before mentioning something they’re not sure he’ll like. Perhaps this tension is another way Westbrook has found to maintain focus, in himself and in others — the social equivalent of grinding a blade across a rough stone to keep it sharp.I first met Westbrook while writing an article for this magazine in 2012, and we did not exactly hit it off. He kept me waiting for over an hour for an interview that was spectacularly unproductive; despite my best efforts to keep our conversation going, it petered out in less than 10 minutes, some of which time Westbrook actually spent on the phone telling a friend that he was currently doing an interview but would be done with it very soon. It felt almost as if he were performing some kind of art project.He shut down questions with ruthless efficiency. The P.R. staff had mentioned to me that Westbrook was famous in the organization for giving everyone nicknames: Alfalfa, Ace Ventura, Snakes on a Plane. I asked him what nicknames he’d given his teammates.“Those are my secrets,” he said. “I don’t let out secrets.”The most revealing thing took place afterward, when Westbrook went into the P.R. office to banter with the staff. He sat down to look over a stack of contracts. (Westbrook handles most of his own business; he often sits in the back of the practice facility to pay his bills.) He admired a new addition to the room — a big, free-standing, color-coded season schedule — and asked the P.R. guys if he could have it. They said no, they were using it to plan the season, but they would be happy to get another one printed out especially for him. Westbrook asked why he couldn’t just take this one right now, and then they could get another schedule printed for themselves. That way he wouldn’t have to wait. He was the player, he said. Shouldn’t he have priority?Even in the middle of the P.R. office, in other words, Westbrook was having a P.R. problem. He was being a jerk. Watching this performance in person, however, even immediately after my unsuccessful interview, I could see why everyone liked him anyway. Westbrook wasn’t only a jerk, or at least not uncomplicatedly a jerk. By traditional social standards, saying the things Westbrook was saying is bad manners. But that’s in the same way that, by traditional basketball standards, it’s a bad idea to charge into a one-on-four fast break and pull up for a contested free-throw-line jumper. He was a social gambler as well as a basketball gambler, one of those people who know how to play on the line between charisma and rudeness, teasing and affection, especially among people he likes.Westbrook started to sign his stack of documents. He held the pen in his left hand.“Little-known fact about Russell,” one of the P.R. guys said to me. “He shoots with his right hand, it says he’s right-handed in the media guide, but he writes with his left.”Westbrook’s head snapped up. He looked straight at me, where I was leaning against the door frame.“Don’t put that in your article,” he said.I told him we could make a deal: I would keep it out of my article if he would tell me one of his teammates’ nicknames.“You don’t get to bargain with me,” Westbrook said — and then he added a curse word with so much venom it made me laugh out loud. He went back to signing papers with his left hand.A month into the 2016 season, Westbrook arrived in New York agonizingly close to the impossible Oscar Robertson dream: averaging a triple-double. The only stat holding him back was rebounding. He was at 9.9 per game — an extremely high number, historic in itself for a point guard of his size, frankly a little unrealistic. But still: single digits. The statisticians had crunched and crunched and determined that at Madison Square Garden that night, Westbrook would need to pull down 11 rebounds in order to get his average up to 10.Rebounding has always been one of Westbrook’s superpowers. He is athletic enough to leap through vast spaces, strong enough to bully people in close combat and, most important, persistent enough to get himself, with unholy urgency, to the places around the rim most likely to yield rebounds. I have seen Westbrook streak in from a distant corner of the floor to tip in a missed 3-pointer off the glass — a hurtling, perfectly timed run that looked almost like a center fielder’s sprinting back to leap and steal a home run just as it cleared the wall.In the end, every rebound comes down to one small coordinate somewhere near the basket: a grapefruit of space that materializes suddenly, unpredictably, and then disappears in a second, almost like the golden snitch in quidditch. Westbrook is frighteningly good at getting to that elusive point before anyone else, almost regardless of his starting position, and making it his own. He owns the grapefruit of space.“Some of these rebounds over power forwards and centers — that’s will,” Morrow told me. “You see it in his eyes. It’s just a level of focus and will that I have never seen before. Never. Nobody. I’ve been around a lot of focused dudes, but to be consistently like that — that’s crazy.”At Madison Square Garden, Westbrook needed 11 rebounds to cross the sacred threshold, and started with the Knicks’ first shot: It came off the back of the rim, and Westbrook casually took it out of the air with his left hand. Three minutes later, a 3-pointer rattled in and out and popped directly into Westbrook’s hands. The ball seemed to seek him out, over and over, and when it didn’t, he was perfectly willing to go out of his way to get it. In the second quarter, Westbrook rained down a storm of stats on the Knicks that included a series of crucial and difficult rebounds, several of which looked even more impressive because they came at the expense of Kristaps Porzingis, New York’s gigantic young center, who at 7-foot-3 is a full foot taller than Westbrook. Twice, Porzingis blocked Westbrook’s shot only to see Westbrook end up with the ball; another time, Westbrook sprang off both feet and violently snatched a rebound out of Porzingis’s very high hands.By the end of the first half, Westbrook had already collected nine rebounds and was on the brink of a triple-double, which Knicks fans were openly cheering for him to get. The triple-double arrived 79 seconds into the second half, at which point the journalists around me started tweeting furiously that, at only 20 minutes of game action, it was the fastest triple-double of the modern era — until the Thunder P.R. staff pointed out that, as a matter of fact, Westbrook did one the previous year in under 18 minutes. (Westbrook now holds the second-, third- and fourth-fastest triple-doubles in N.B.A. history.)Even with his triple-double secured, Westbrook would not stop rebounding. My favorite of the night was his 14th: he drove, drew three defenders, passed to a teammate for a wide-open jump shot and ended up deep out of bounds. Instead of just hanging out there, admiring his handiwork, Westbrook turned, tracked the shot with his eyes, saw that it was falling short and, at precisely the moment the ball hit the front of the rim, exploded into the air with shocking intensity. It did not look like a normal professional basketball player trying to get his hand on a ball to extend a possession late in the third quarter of the 19th game of the season. It looked like a man in the middle of a winner-takes-all dunk contest against the Devil himself to prevent the incineration of planet Earth. It looked as if Westbrook were insulted by the very concept of distance, and so he annihilated it, soaring and spearing the ball out of the air from between two waiting Knicks. Spike Lee, courtside, was standing to celebrate the initial missed shot, but when Westbrook came flying in to seize it, he clutched his head in exasperation and hopelessness and despair.By the time the game ended, Westbrook had 27 points, 14 assists and 17 rebounds — far more than he needed. He was officially averaging a triple-double, and then some.This came in the middle of what would turn out to be a streak of seven straight games with triple-doubles — a feat so outrageous it was last done by Michael Jordan in 1989. Westbrook and his numbers became a leaguewide spectacle. A few weeks later, after hundreds of questions about it, Westbrook expressed annoyance at the whole phenomenon.“Honestly, man,” he told reporters, “this triple-double thing is kind of getting on my nerves. People think if I don’t get it, it’s like a big thing. When I do get it, it’s a thing.” He added, “For the 100th time, I don’t care.”But this of course was hard to believe, because Westbrook cares about everything.In Oklahoma City in December, on a day off between his triple-doubles, Russell Westbrook sat on the Rolling Thunder Book Bus. This is a staple of the team’s community-outreach program: a school bus that has been converted into a mobile library. That afternoon it was parked, under the wide blue Great Plains sky, in front of a suburban elementary school. Westbrook was there early, long before the kids started lining up, before even the team’s P.R. director arrived. He sat in the bus’s driver’s seat, sheltered from the Oklahoma wind, waiting, passing the time by cranking the tall doors open and closed with a lever near the steering wheel.Open, closed, open, closed.Eventually, a line of third graders formed, and Westbrook prepared himself by stockpiling, methodically in his left hand, a supply of bookmarks and bracelets, which he would hand to the kids as they came through. One by one, the students walked to the bus door. When they saw Westbrook sitting at the top of the stairs, they were variously awed or thrilled or confused or stoic.“Are you really Russell Westbrook?” a little boy asked him.“Yes,” Westbrook said.“I met you at a gas station before!” one girl said.“I was at the game last night!” another said.“I was, too!” Westbrook answered.He directed the third graders toward their favorite reading: Captain Underpants, Goosebumps, Bunnicula, Bad Kitty. (The Thunder’s backup point guard, Semaj Christon, was in the back, helping them find specific books.) “Have fun in school,” Westbrook told everyone as they left the bus.Midway through the session, a boy stepped onto the Book Bus with one of his shoelaces dragging behind him.Westbrook looked down at the floor.“Tie your shoe, man,” he said.The boy looked down, too, then kept walking to the back of the bus and picked a book.When the boy re-emerged, Westbrook handed him a bracelet and a bookmark.“Have fun in school,” he said. “And tie your shoe up.”The boy walked off the bus, shoelace still flopping around.“Don’t forget to tie your shoe!” Westbrook shouted out the door.From that point on in his Book Bus session, Westbrook’s focus was locked onto the children’s shoelaces, a strangely high percentage of which seemed to be loose. “Your shoe is loose,” Westbrook would say as a child walked onto the bus. “Tie your shoe up.” He was cheerful but firm; he seemed genuinely concerned. Dozens of kids passed through the bus, and Westbrook scrutinized each of their shoes, and not a single loose lace was allowed to pass without comment. Over and over, he told the kids to tie their shoes. Even when the laces were not all the way untied, just trending in that direction, Westbrook pointed it out: “Tie your shoes up.” It was as if he had identified a public safety epidemic that he was single-handedly going to fix, one child at a time.One boy stepped onto the bus with both of his shoes intentionally untied, laces dragging like catfish whiskers.“You like to wear your shoes like that, huh?” Westbrook said. “That’s what I used to do, so I get it. But you gotta tuck ’em in.” And before the boy could go back and get his book, Westbrook actually knelt down on the floor of the bus and tucked the boy’s shoelaces into the sides of his shoes.After a while, the Book Bus session ended, and the kids and the players took a photo together outside, and then all the kids returned to their classrooms, laces safely snug on their feet, and Russell Westbrook drove off in a white Cadillac sedan, flexing his mind-muscle on other problems.Sometimes a place and a person align in unexpectedly powerful ways. For its entire existence, Oklahoma City has suffered from a particularly nasty case of a particularly American curse: volatility. It was founded in 1889, in one chaotic afternoon, with a land run that brought the population instantly from zero to 10,000. Its economy is a never-ending cycle of oil-industry booms and busts. Its weather features killer tornadoes erupting suddenly out of placid skies. Even Oklahoma’s formerly stable earth has, in recent years, begun to spasm: activities associated with hydrofracking, source of the region’s most recent economic boom, have kicked off an escalating series of earthquake swarms.The departure last summer of Kevin Durant — a pillar of stability for almost 10 years, a player who had talked all his career about how he wanted to stay with the Thunder forever — was magnified, for locals, by the knowledge of this history. This is what happens in OKC. Talented people leave, dreams die, booms go bust. Especially when things seem to be at their best, everything tends to fall apart.After Durant left, there was endless speculation that Westbrook would leave, too, and it would have been hard to blame him if he had. Looking around the league, Westbrook would have seen almost nothing but bigger cities with stronger teams and better restaurants and livelier fashion scenes — any one of which would have bent over backward for the chance to add him to its mix. Instead, Westbrook signed a contract extension to stay in Oklahoma. It was, in some ways, a crazy choice, unreasonable on many levels, which made it of course the perfect Westbrook thing to do.Westbrook once told me that growing up in Los Angeles, he had no idea Oklahoma City even existed. And yet he has become, in his odd balance of chaos and control, his volatile lurching toward greatness, a sort of human embodiment of the place. Westbrook was already beloved in OKC, but his decision to stay turned him into a legend. The city was hung with banners saying “WHY NOT?” and the tallest skyscraper lit up with Westbrook’s name: “THANK YOU RUSS.”“There are people in Oklahoma City who hold themselves differently because of Russell Westbrook,” Sam Presti, the Thunder’s general manager, told me. “I mean that literally. They stand up straighter. People, not necessarily athletes, draw confidence from him and his disregard for the judgment or labeling from others. I’m confident that there are a lot of people in this city that go into job interviews saying to themselves: ‘Come on, you’ve got this — be Westbrook, think Westbrook.’ And that might actually help them get the job, and if they don’t, they walk out feeling sorry for the person that missed the opportunity to hire them.”This is the lesson of Russell Westbrook. In a deeply imperfect world — a world where a shooting touch will suddenly abandon you at the worst possible moment, where your teammates might not be good enough to make a win possible, where an economy might suddenly collapse for no apparent reason, where the decency of strangers cannot be presumed — in a world like that, Westbrook’s approach to life might actually be the most rational one. You control the things you can control (family, daily routines, the occasional big choice) and outside that you fling yourself with wild abandon, every day, at every object that seems worthy of pursuit. In the absence of guarantees, in the absence of certainty, in the new American volatility, we can bank on only one thing: total presence, total sincerity, total effort, all the time. That is the sound of one hand clapping.Westbrook’s critics have been very loud for many years. They are quieter today, but they’re still out there, disputing the magnitude of his triple-doubles by pointing to his high turnover rate and his low shooting percentage, his inefficiencies, his mistakes. But, as Billy Donovan, the Thunder’s head coach, told me, this is missing the point. “Before you go to the criticism,” Donovan said, “you have to understand Russell Westbrook. The No. 1 thing for him is how hard he competes. It starts there. That doesn’t mean he plays a perfect game, doesn’t mean that he never turns the ball over, doesn’t mean that he doesn’t miss a defensive assignment. But when the ball is loose on the glass or on the floor, when it requires energy and passion and fire — Russell is bringing that. So many players live with regret: They could have done a little bit more, been more committed, worked harder. I think he’s going to have a great level of peace when his time is done. He’s going to be able to move on with his life. He’s going to have peace in his heart.”Through 41 games, the official halfway point of the season, Russell Westbrook was actually doing it: He was averaging a triple-double — 30.7 points, 10.5 assists, and 10.7 rebounds. Stat-heads calculated that, if you adjusted Westbrook’s numbers to reflect the pace of the Oscar Robertson era, they would look like nothing we’ve ever seen in the history of anything: nearly 50 points, 17 rebounds, 17 assists. Historical comparisons are impossible to draw in such a linear way, of course. But still. It is possible that we are witnessing, in real time, a performance as aberrant as anything any of the primordial basketball legends (Wilt, Oscar, Bill Russell, Pistol Pete) ever did. We may as well start broadcasting Westbrook’s games in grainy black and white.And the second half of the season may actually be better. Westbrook’s self-mythology — his belief that he is an underdog — was no doubt stoked last month when he learned that, despite all his exorbitant numbers, despite his decision to stay in Oklahoma, despite the game-winning shots and the surprising success of his relatively untalented team, he was not chosen to start in this year’s All-Star Game. His spot was taken by a player more popular with N.B.A. fans, the ever-sunny Steph Curry — Kevin Durant’s new point guard. So Westbrook did what he does and launched himself into his next triple-double.
On this week’s podcast, the actress and singer Megan Hilty reads “On the Precipice, Wings Spread,” about a woman whose love overpowers her fear when she finds out her partner is H.I.V.-positive.You can also hear the episode on iTunes and Stitcher.The 2010 Modern Love essay was written by Kerri Sandberg, a writer who lives in Maine. Follow her on Twitter.Ms. Hilty’s most recent role was in the film “Rules Don’t Apply.” She is on Twitter and Instagram.(By the way, consider spending Valentine’s Day in Boston if you want to see Modern Love Live.)
The news can seem grim. Refugee crises, extreme weather and wars plague the globe. Cellphones have exploded. America is bitterly divided. Mary Tyler Moore died. Even the doomsday clock has been reset.But we thought you could use a break, whatever your politics, your fears, your troubles. The nation’s zoos agree. Welcome to the Great National Cute Animal Tweet-Off of 2017.Over the past two days, zoos and aquariums have dominated the conversation on Twitter with photo after photo of adorable animals. And the world cracked a smile.It all started, according to  The Virginian-Pilot, with a Smithsonian National Zoo announcement on Wednesday of the birth of a female gray seal on Jan. 21, a pup described as “nursing, moving and bonding well with mom.”The baby’s mother, a 33-year-old gray seal named Kara, set a record for being the oldest seal of her kind to give birth in a zoo. (The Washington Post even had a Facebook Live presentation of her ultrasound in December.)The seal’s birth was a reminder that gray seals moved from the endangered list to being a species of least concern in 2016 by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Their numbers rose to more than 600,000 worldwide.The Smithsonian birth announcement set off a ripple online, and generated a hashtag — #CuteAnimalTweetOff — which grew into a viral phenomenon as zoos posted photos of cute and fuzzy pandas, otters, orangutans and tiger cubs. There is even a baby turtle, as well as a pun or two, in the fray.“Here we have an otterly adorable submission to #CuteAnimalTweetOff,” the Aquarium of the Pacific said on Twitter with a photo of otters.“Leapin’ Lemurs the #cuteanimaltweetoff is going strong,” the Maryland Zoo wrote with a photo of a lemur.The postings have gone international, suggesting that maybe, just maybe, we can find common ground across borders by looking at cute animals. The ZSL London Zoo raised the bar with a few seconds of video of its tiger cubs Karis and Achilles, born in June.Sarah Janet Hill, a host at Radio Free Radio in Hampton, Va., has been credited with giving the Smithsonian announcement the online bump it needed to spread.“I thought, ‘Our seals are cuter than that,’ ” Ms. Hill is quoted as saying in The Virginian-Pilot. So she retweeted the announcement to the Virginia Aquarium and Marine Science Center, which took up the challenge.The viral response to the pup’s birth announcement has been a pleasant surprise for the Smithsonian Zoo. Annalisa Meyer, a spokeswoman, said on Thursday that the seal pup had not yet been given a name, a process that includes taking suggestions from the public or giving a sponsor the opportunity to come up with one.“We have never set off a cute animal challenge,” Ms. Meyer said. “Will it be the last? Maybe not. We are open to more cute tweet-offs.”But to what end? Maybe the point is just relief from the drumbeat of sober news.“It’s been a really fun day, and I’m just glad there was something light to talk about today,” Ms. Hill told The Virginian-Pilot. “There’s been some heavy news lately, and it’s been fun to distract people with this fun stuff.”“Everyone wants their zoo to win,” she added, but really, there were no winners or losers in the standoff.Just cute animals.
MOSCOW — Vladimir V. Putin, Russia’s president, hardly misses a chance to talk tough on terrorism, once famously saying he would find Chechen terrorists sitting in the “outhouse” and “rub them out.”He and President Trump, notably dismissive of political correctness, would seem to have found common language on fighting terrorism — except on one point of, well, language.During his campaign, Mr. Trump associated Islam with terrorism and criticized President Obama for declining to use the phrase “radical Islamic terrorism.”However, Mr. Putin, whom Mr. Trump so openly admires for his toughness, has, for more than a decade, done exactly what President Obama did. He has never described terrorists as “Islamic” and has repeatedly gone out of his way to denounce such language.“I would prefer Islam not be mentioned in vain alongside terrorism,” he said at a news conference in December, answering a question about the Islamic State, a group he often refers to as “the so-called Islamic State,” to emphasize a distinction with the Islamic religion.At the opening of a mosque in Moscow in 2015, Mr. Putin spoke of terrorists who “cynically exploit religious feelings for political aims.”In the Middle East, Mr. Putin said at the mosque opening, “terrorists from the so-called Islamic State are compromising a great world religion, compromising Islam, sowing hatred, killing people, including clergy,” and added that “their ideology is built on lies and blatant distortions of Islam.”He was careful to add, “Muslim leaders are bravely and fearlessly using their own influence to resist this extremist propaganda.”And, this being Russia, the failure to adhere to this Kremlin-determined interpretation is a prosecutable offense: The Russian news media are required by law to note in any mention of the Islamic State that the reference is to a banned terrorist organization of that name, lest it be misconstrued as denigrating religion.Mr. Putin does not take this stance to soothe the feelings of Western liberals, a group he dismisses as hypocritical in any case.“Putin prides himself on Russia’s intelligence capabilities,” the Brookings Institution wrote in a study of the early formation of his counterterrorism policies. “Russian leaders think they know their enemy,” and it is not the governments of majority Muslim countries such as Iraq and Iran, or the majority of Muslims living in Russia.Instead, Russian counterterrorism strategy focused on financing and militarily backing moderate Muslim leaders, with the breakthrough in the Chechen war coming when the region’s imam, Akhmad Kadyrov, allied with the Russian military. His son, Ramzan Kadyrov, leads the region today.While embracing Islamic leaders as a centerpiece of its counterterrorism strategy, however, the Kremlin did not avoid drawing distinctions along religious lines.The Russian government backed the Kadyrov family’s campaign to revive traditional Sufi Islam in Chechnya as a counterweight to the more austere Wahhabi denomination professed by many separatists. The Wahhabi strain was outlawed in another restive, predominantly Muslim province, Dagestan, and its adherents are persecuted in Russia, rights groups say.Still, the alliance with moderate Islamic religious leaders became important in pacifying Chechnya and other North Caucasus regions, which have ceased to pose a serious security threat to Russia.“Putin rules a multiconfessional country,” Orkhan Dzhemal, a commentator on Islamic affairs, said in a telephone interview, noting that in the United States, in contrast, Muslims are not a powerful political force. “He cannot say ‘Islamic terrorism’ for a simple reason. He doesn’t want to alienate millions of Russians.”The term preferred in Russian political parlance is “international terrorism.”In a phone call on Friday, President Trump and Mr. Putin discussed “real cooperation” in fighting terrorist groups in Syria. They could agree on an enemy. But the Kremlin statement described a “priority placed on uniting forces in the fight against the main threat — international terrorism.”
QUEBEC — From the outside, the Islamic Cultural Center’s building in the Ste.-Foy neighborhood of Quebec City looks more like a medical center than a place of worship. But it is very much the heart of the city’s Muslim community and, now, a site of tragedy.Several of the six people killed by a gunman at the mosque during Sunday night prayers lived in the surrounding neighborhood, which is dominated by postwar brick houses and low-rise apartments. Others had initially come to the area to study or teach at Laval University in Ste.-Foy. They came from Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria and Guinea, but they were connected by community and faith.Khaled Belkacemi, 60. A professor of soil and agri-food engineering at Laval University, Mr. Belkacemi arrived in Canada with his wife, Safia Hamoudi, to escape turmoil in his native Algeria, said Jean-Claude Dufour, the university’s dean of agriculture and food science.Professor Dufour said that Ms. Hamoudi, who is also a faculty member at Laval, told him after the attack, “We came to Quebec and Canada because we didn’t want to stay in an environment where we have to fight or there is too much danger.” She added, “We never thought it would happen in Quebec,” the professor said.Professor Belkacemi, who held Ph.D.s from a university in Algeria and the University of Sherbrooke in Quebec, was an authority on the effects of freezing on foods. In addition to teaching and research, Professor Belkacemi consulted on the design of food processing equipment and factories.On Facebook, Professor Belkacemi’s son, Amir, recalled his father’s decision to seek out a better life for his family in Canada. He described his father as “a good man, an example of resilience, a man loved by all, a professor and researcher emeritus, a fighter, a man who left his country to give his family a chance to live far away from horror.”Abdelkrim Hassane, 41. An immigrant from Algeria, Mr. Hassane was a programming analyst for the Quebec provincial government. He and his wife, Louiza Mohamed Said, had three children ranging in age from 15 months to 10 years.“How will I tell my kids?” Ms. Said said in an interview with Radio-Canada, the French service of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, adding of the man charged with the killings: “I don’t care about that person. It’s too late. It’s my husband I care about.”Aboubaker Thabti, 44. Mr. Thabti worked in a poultry processing plant just outside Quebec City, and his wife operated a day care center. Several news reports indicated that Mr. Thabti immigrated from Tunisia about five years ago and that he was the father of two young children.“Know that this man was seen by his colleagues and manager as a courteous man, a hard worker who was smiling and discreet,” said Stéphanie Paquet, a spokeswoman for his employer, Exceldor. “Mr. Thabti was very much appreciated by all around him.”Azzeddine Soufiane, 57. Among the first victims to be identified without official confirmation, Mr. Soufiane was a butcher who owned a small halal grocery store, Boucherie Assalam, about two minutes’ drive from the mosque. The Globe and Mail, a Toronto newspaper, reported that Mr. Soufiane came from Morocco during the 1980s to study geology at Laval University. Several members of the mosque said that Mr. Soufiane’s connection to Muslims through his store had made him an unofficial leader of the city’s Muslim community.Mamadou Tanou Barry, 42. Mr. Barry worked as a computer technician at a cosmetics company. A native of Guinea, Mr. Barry had two young children.Ibrahima Barry, 39. Another native of Guinea, Mr. Barry was a close friend of Mamadou Tanou Barry, although they were not related. Their families lived in the same apartment building in Ste.-Foy. Mr. Barry was a provincial public servant and the father of four children.
Europe is facing multiple tribulations in 2017, engulfed in uncertainties over terrorism, borders, migration, economics and President Trump’s new America First message booming from across the Atlantic.“It’s not the first time Europe has been challenged by crisis,” said Anna-Lena Högenauer, a researcher at the Institute of Political Science at the University of Luxembourg, but “there’s definitely a combination of crises.”Here are some of the potentially disruptive issues and events looming for the year that could reshape — or at least deepen — the fractures in the European Union, a 28-nation bloc of more than a half-billion people and the world’s largest single free-trade zone.Negotiations for Britain’s exit from the European Union, known as “Brexit,” the outcome of a referendum last June, could officially start by the end of March, a self-imposed deadline set by Prime Minister Theresa May. But the run-up to those negotiations — further complicated by a Supreme Court ruling that Ms. May needs Parliament’s approval to begin the process — has created enormous uncertainties. They include how European Union citizens residing in Britain — and the British citizens residing in other European Union countries — will work and live if they cannot freely traverse borders as they do now.Big banks and other multinational companies with operations in London and elsewhere in Britain are not awaiting the outcome of the negotiations, expected to last two years, that will determine the scope of the country’s changed status. They are making contingency plans to move thousands of jobs elsewhere. Other European Union members are eager to get those jobs. Their leaders also have suggested that Britain must be penalized economically to discourage further defections from the bloc.Britain’s decision also threatens to alter its geography and possibly stoke political instability. Scotland and Northern Ireland had wanted to stay within the European Union, and may now move to leave Britain. A new referendum on Scottish independence — reprising a measure that was defeated in 2014 — is now considered likely. Unrest in Northern Ireland could resume if the border with Ireland, a European Union member, is restricted.Guy Verhofstadt, the European Union’s negotiator for Britain’s exit, wrote in The Guardian on Jan. 18 that “Brexit will be a sad, surreal and exhausting process.”Turkey has been negotiating to become a European Union member for more than a decade, but that prospect has turned more doubtful, partly because of the authoritarian actions of the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, particularly since a failed coup attempt in July.Increasingly exasperated with the European Union, Mr. Erdogan has suggested that he may hold a referendum in Turkey this year on whether to withdraw its membership application. Mr. Erdogan has also suggested that he may seek to restore the death penalty in Turkey, a step that other European leaders say would disqualify the country from joining the European Union.Nonetheless, European officials are loath to suspend the negotiations for fear that Mr. Erdogan will scrap an agreement to restrict the flow of migrants and refugees from Turkey into Europe, an exodus that has placed extraordinary strains on the Continent and helped incite nationalist and populist anger.The country that came to symbolize Europe’s economic travails a few years ago has receded from the headlines somewhat, obscured by Brexit, fears of terrorist attacks in European cities and coming elections in the Netherlands, France and Germany. But Greece’s economy remains anemic and in need of more debt relief.Despite three bailouts in five years, poverty rates are increasing and the unemployment rate is Europe’s highest. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras of the leftist Syriza Party, who rose to power in 2015 on his defiance of Greece’s creditors and threat to leave the European Union’s single-currency zone, is sagging in the polls, raising the possibility of political turbulence and new elections.Negotiations for further restructuring of Greece’s debts, involving Germany and the International Monetary Fund, also have encountered difficulties. “If the I.M.F. and Germany cannot find a way out, this is a serious problem,” said Dimitrios Argyroulis, a political economics scholar at the University of Sheffield.The chronically troubled economy of Italy, the European Union’s fourth largest, has aroused growing concern as possibly the next Greek-style debt crisis. The main reason is the weakness of Italy’s big banks, which are carrying hundreds of billions of dollars’ worth of bad loans. They are reluctant to lend more money, which is precisely what Italy needs to stimulate its economy.Italy’s debt levels also have irked Germany, Europe’s strongest economy, where leaders are reluctant to help finance any bailout. “The current developments do not bode well and point to the possibility of repeating the Greece disaster on a much larger scale,” Geopolitical Futures, a forecasting firm, said in a Jan. 20 posting on its website.The regional parliament of Spain’s semiautonomous Catalonia region voted in November 2015 to begin a process to achieve independence in 2017 — an outcome the Spanish government has vowed to block. But the secessionists, buoyed by the Brexit referendum, say the momentum of nationalist movements in Europe is on their side. Whether they will succeed remains unclear at best.The European Union and United States have closely coordinated their regimen of economic sanctions imposed on Russia in 2014, a response to Russia’s annexation of the Crimean Peninsula and military actions in eastern Ukraine. But President Trump has injected uncertainty into Europe over a unified stand toward Russia, suggesting he wants to ease or terminate the sanctions. Mr. Trump, whose amity toward Russia is a political issue in the United States, also has criticized NATO, asserting that the alliance is obsolete — a description that Russian officials have welcomed.While Mr. Trump’s subordinates have sought to reassure European Union leaders that the United States remains a reliable ally, doubts have been planted. Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the foreign minister of Germany at the time Trump made those remarks, said they had “caused astonishment.”Emboldened by the momentum of Brexit and Mr. Trump, nationalist politicians espousing hostility toward the European Union and Muslim immigrants have made strong gains in campaigns for coming elections in three European countries, including the two largest.In the Netherlands, where a national vote is set for March 15, the populist lawmaker Geert Wilders, who wants to slash immigration and follow Britain out of the European Union, is doing well in the polls. Other Dutch politicians, including Prime Minister Mark Rutte, have ruled out working with Mr. Wilders and his Party for Freedom and Democracy, which most likely means that Mr. Wilders will not be the next prime minister.But in a sign of Mr. Wilders’s influence, Mr. Rutte has taken his own hard-right turn, warning immigrants against behavior that offends the “silent majority.”In France, where presidential elections are set for April 23 with a runoff between the two top candidates on May 7, the rise of the extreme right has been a dominant theme. Marine Le Pen, leader of the National Front, has said she hopes to replicate Mr. Trump’s  success. She supports a referendum on European Union membership and new border controls.Germany holds federal elections Sept. 24, which will determine the future of Chancellor Angela Merkel. But her positions on European unity, open borders and generosity toward refugees have seriously weakened her popularity. Mr. Trump mocked and insulted her during his campaign, describing his Democratic adversary, Hillary Clinton, as “America’s Merkel,” and called the German leader’s refugee policy “insane.”At the same time, Germany’s biggest political story is the rapid ascent of the far-right Alternative for Germany party, which has evoked memories of the Nazis as it campaigns on denunciations of Ms. Merkel, the euro, immigration and Islam.Even if Ms. Merkel survives to win a fourth term as chancellor, political analysts see her as a weakened figure, and at the worst possible time.“Europe has never needed a strong Merkel more,” Ian Bremmer, founder and president of the Eurasia Group, a political risk consultant firm in Washington, said this month in an assessment of the year’s most dangerous risks. “In 2017, she’ll be unavailable for the role.”
Most people say “I’m sorry” many times a day for a host of trivial affronts – accidentally bumping into someone or failing to hold open a door. These apologies are easy and usually readily accepted, often with a response like, “No problem.”But when “I’m sorry” are the words needed to right truly hurtful words, acts or inaction, they can be the hardest ones to utter. And even when an apology is offered with the best of intentions, it can be seriously undermined by the way in which it is worded. Instead of eradicating the emotional pain the affront caused, a poorly worded apology can result in lasting anger and antagonism, and undermine an important relationship.I admit to a lifetime of challenges when it comes to apologizing, especially when I thought I was right or misunderstood or that the offended party was being overly sensitive. But I recently discovered that the need for an apology is less about me than the person who, for whatever reason, is offended by something I said or did or failed to do, regardless of my intentions.I also learned that a sincere apology can be powerful medicine with surprising value for the giver as well as the recipient.After learning that a neighbor who had assaulted me verbally was furious about an oversight I had not known I committed, I wrote a letter in hopes of defusing the hostility. Without offering any excuses, I apologized for my lapse in etiquette and respect. I said I was not asking for or expecting forgiveness, merely that I hoped we could have a civil, if not friendly, relationship going forward, then delivered the letter with a jar of my homemade jam.Expecting nothing in return, I was greatly relieved when my doorbell rang and the neighbor thanked me warmly for what I had said and done. My relief was palpable. I felt as if I’d not only discarded an enemy but made a new friend, which is indeed how it played out in the days that followed.About a week later I learned that, according to the psychologist and author Harriet Lerner, the wording of my apology was just what the “doctor” would have ordered. In the very first chapter of her new book, “Why Won’t You Apologize?,” Dr. Lerner points out that apologies followed by rationalizations are “never satisfying” and can even be harmful.“When ‘but’ is tagged on to an apology,” she wrote, it’s an excuse that counters the sincerity of the original message. The best apologies are short and don’t include explanations that can undo them.Nor should a request for forgiveness be part of an apology. The offended party may accept a sincere apology but still be unready to forgive the transgression. Forgiveness, should it come, may depend on a demonstration going forward that the offense will not be repeated.“It’s not our place to tell anyone to forgive or not to forgive,” Dr. Lerner said in an interview. She disputes popular thinking that failing to forgive is bad for one’s health and can lead to a life mired in bitterness and hate.“There is no one path to healing,” she said. “There are many roads to letting go of corrosive emotions without forgiving, like therapy, meditation, medication, even swimming.”Hardest of all, Dr. Lerner said, is to forgive a nonapologetic offender, like my aunt whom I had loved dearly and who served as my second mother after mine died. But when I, raised Jewish, married a Christian, she refused to come to the wedding and never apologized for the intense hurt her absence had caused. Although I made several attempts to restore the relationship, she always managed to deflect them, and to this day, more than half a century later, I cannot forgive her.The focus of an apology should be on what the offender has said or done, not on the person’s reaction to it. Saying “I’m sorry you feel that way” shifts the focus away from the person who is supposedly apologizing and turns “I’m sorry” into “I’m not really sorry at all,” the psychologist wrote.As to why many people find it hard to offer a sincere, unfettered apology, Dr. Lerner pointed out that “humans are hard-wired for defensiveness. It’s very difficult to take direct, unequivocal responsibility for our hurtful actions. It takes a great deal of maturity to put a relationship or another person before our need to be right.”Offering an apology is an admission of guilt that admittedly leaves people vulnerable. There’s no guarantee as to how it will be received. It is the prerogative of the injured party to reject an apology, even when sincerely offered. The person may feel the offense was so enormous — for example, having been sexually abused by a parent — that it is impossible to accept a mea culpa offered by the abusive parent years later.Righting a perceived wrong can be especially challenging when it involves family members, who may be inclined to cite history — he was abused by his father, or she was raised by a distant mother — as an excuse for hurtful behavior. “History can be used as an explanation, not an excuse,” the psychologist said. “It should involve a conversation that allows the hurt party to express anger and pain if an apology, however sincere, is to heal a broken connection.”As she wrote: “Nondefensive listening [to the hurt party] is at the heart of offering a sincere apology.” She urges the listener not to “interrupt, argue, refute, or correct facts, or bring up your own criticisms and complaints.” Even when the offended party is largely at fault, she suggests apologizing for one’s own part in the incident, however small it may be.Dr. Lerner views apology as “central to health, both physical and emotional. ‘I’m sorry’ are the two most healing words in the English language,” she said. “The courage to apologize wisely and well is not just a gift to the injured person, who can then feel soothed and released from obsessive recriminations, bitterness and corrosive anger. It’s also a gift to one’s own health, bestowing self-respect, integrity and maturity — an ability to take a cleareyed look at how our behavior affects others and to assume responsibility for acting at another person’s expense.”Beverly Engel, the author of “The Power of Apology,” relates how her life was changed by a sincere, effective apology from her mother for years of emotional abuse. “Almost like magic,” she wrote, “apology has the power to repair harm, mend relationships, soothe wounds and heal broken hearts. An apology actually affects the bodily functions of the person receiving it — blood pressure decreases, heart rate slows and breathing becomes steadier.”
The Popcast is hosted by Jon Caramanica, pop music critic for The New York Times. It covers the latest in pop music criticism, trends and news.After a record seven wins at the Golden Globes, the movie musical “La La Land” was nominated for 14 Oscars this week, setting the stage for what may well be one of the more overwhelming award-season sweeps in Hollywood memory. “La La Land” has also divided The New York Times’s Culture writers, who are split on everything from the quality of the film’s music to the role of John Legend’s character to the likability of its dazzling opening number.For this week’s Popcast, Jon Caramanica (whose opinion on the film is mixed) is joined by a pair of “La La Land” advocates — A.O. Scott, co-chief film critic of The Times, and the critic-at-large Wesley Morris — as well as a “La La Land” hater, the pop music reporter Joe Coscarelli, for a wide-ranging conversation about the film’s flaws and merits.The film, the story of a jazz pianist (Sebastian, played by Ryan Gosling) and an actress (Mia, played by Emma Stone) falling in love with each other, and also their ambition, makes it plain that it’s difficult to have both of those things. It dazzles with elegant camera work, and revives the gestures of musicals dating back all the way to the 1930s. But “La La Land” is also designed for escape, and its success has brought on critiques of the film’s treatment of race, gender, and even jazz, the music that animates Seb.Mr. Scott argues that over all, the film is about the tension between love and work, between ambition and romantic desire: “You might not have both. The thing that makes this movie generationally authentic as a millennial document, is that the greater romance is not love, it’s work — it’s ambition.”But what about the music in this musical, a movie ostensibly about jazz?Mr. Coscarelli’s opinion is very clear: “I hated the music, and that’s tough for something that’s hanging so much of its quality on being a capital-M Musical,” he said.And Mr. Caramanica argues that John Legend — who stars as Keith, an old nemesis who hires Seb to play in his jazz-hybrid ensemble the Messengers — understands that he is a foil in the film. “He is not making an argument about a sound or about a style, and you can tell that because the version of jazz that he plays is pure parody,” he said. “When they’re rehearsing, it’s jazz, but when they’re on stage it’s like Galactic meets the Disco Biscuits at Red Rocks.”John Legend — who delivers a speech about the need to push jazz into the future — may be the foil, but he is not the villain, Mr. Scott adds. “I would even venture to say that what he says about forward motion and things changing and not just dwelling in the past and finding some kind of synthesis of the music you want to play and music that people want to hear is as close to a manifesto of what you need to do to make a movie on Hollywood.”Mr. Morris says he doesn’t believe the movie’s idea about music aligns with Seb’s didactic belief that real jazz is pure, classic, untouched by commercial desires. “It doesn’t propose that there’s a bright line between staying pure and selling out. The ideal is you’ll find something that you can do successfully that satisfies your own criteria of integrity and it’s different for Mia than it is for Seb.”And the debate rages on.Email us questions, thoughts, and suggestions at popcast@nytimes.com.
Sorry, John Mayer, you may have sold more copies of your new mini-album, but you did not displace the Weeknd from No. 1.The Weeknd’s “Starboy” (XO/Republic) holds the top spot on Billboard’s chart for a fourth week in a row, thanks to its continued popularity on streaming services. “Starboy” had just 12,000 sales as a full album in the United States last week, but its songs were streamed 53.4 million times, according to Nielsen data. Despite notching a total of five weeks at No. 1 since it came out in November, “Starboy” has sold only 429,000 copies. But it had more than 1.1 billion streams — a sure sign, if any were still needed, of how dramatically the music market has shifted over the last couple of years.Meanwhile, Mr. Mayer’s “The Search for Everything: Wave One” (Columbia), with four songs from his coming album, opened at No. 2 with 38,000 sales and 8.7 million streams. (Not bad for four songs.) Additional “waves” are yet to come, with the full album due in the spring, Columbia announced.Also this week, the “La La Land” soundtrack (Interscope) holds at No. 3, and Bruno Mars’s “24K Magic” (Atlantic) falls one spot to No. 4. The self-titled new album by the punk band AFI — also known as “The Blood Album,” and released on the Concord label — opened at No. 5.
Jasilyn Charger was 19 when she learned her best friend had killed herself. Charger was Lakota Sioux, and she had left the Cheyenne River Reservation in South Dakota for Portland, Ore., just a few months earlier. But in the summer of 2015, she flew home for her friend’s funeral. Then, two days later, while she was still in Eagle Butte — the largest town on the Cheyenne River Reservation with a population of 1,300 — another friend killed herself. Charger was shocked. “It hurt all of us because these were people who we thought we knew but really we had no idea what they were going through,” she said. “It really woke us up.”In the weeks that followed, more teenagers on the reservation killed themselves with belts, knives and handfuls of Benadryl. Native American teenagers and young adults are 1.5 times as likely to kill themselves as the national average, with suicides often clustering in epidemics that hit and fade. Suicide is so common on the reservation that Lakota youth don’t bother to say “committed suicide” or “attempted suicide.” They just say “attempted” or “completed.” By the end of that summer, Jasilyn told me, 30 Cheyenne River kids attempted and eight completed.“We said, ‘They committed suicide for a reason,’ ” Charger told me. In Eagle Butte, reasons weren’t hard to find. Their elders liked to talk about them as the future, but no one seemed to pay much attention to how their lives were hard, bordering on hopeless. Cheyenne River kids had families struggling with poverty and parents and relatives with serious drug-abuse problems. Often there was violence at home, to the point that many youths had nowhere safe to go at night. And amid all this, there was a hard-edged social pressure to drink or use drugs.Charger had seen all of this. Her father died before she was born; her mother, she said, “paid the bills and drank.” She and her twin sister, Jasilea, were incredibly close even if, by 13, they were also perfect foils: Jasilea, willowy and bookish, a good student; Jasilyn, chubby and wild, cutting school and running away on the weekends to do odd jobs — mowing lawns, babysitting, breaking horses, selling weed — that helped put food on the table. But her mother called her in as a runaway one too many times, and the South Dakota Division of Child Protection Services took both girls, sending them to group homes on opposite sides of the state.“It felt like something had been sawed off,” Charger said about her separation from Jasilea. She got so depressed she was moved to a psychiatric unit, where she often got into fights. She aged out of the system at 17, but when she returned to the ranch developments and trailer parks of Eagle Butte, she struggled with depression. She and Jasilea had gone “from knowing everything about each other to being strangers.” She fell into a monthslong cocaine binge, crashing in abandoned cars with other homeless kids. Her weight had dropped to 80 pounds by the time that her cousin, Joseph White Eyes, intervened. “He would say, ‘You’re killing yourself, and we need you,’ ” Charger recalled. “ ‘Don’t get high, let’s go to a sweat.’ He got me off drugs and into our culture.” She eventually found a job in Rapid City on the production team of the local Fox News affiliate but quit, she said, after her boss made one too many “cowboys and Indians” jokes in response to Native Americans’ being shot by the police. In early 2015 she moved to Portland, as far away as she could get. She hadn’t intended to return.But now she was home, amid a new plague of suicides, and she wanted to do whatever she could to help other teenagers on the reservation. Together with White Eyes and their friend, Trenton Casillas-Bakeberg, she formed a youth group. They raised money for basketball tournaments and for a youth trip to the Red Nation Film Festival in California, where the kids were able to see the ocean for the first time in their landlocked lives. They went to the tribal council, demanding and getting funds for a safe house for young people. Most of all they counseled young people, urging them to look out for one another and get involved. “Yeah, it looks all pretty on Facebook,” Charger remembered saying, “but really, what’s going on in real life? You can be busy getting on Snapchat while someone’s getting bullied.”As the suicide wave crested and broke, the youth group, now called the One Mind Youth Movement, turned to something more political. They spent that fall as part of the local campaign against the Keystone XL pipeline, whose route would cut under the Cheyenne River just upstream from the reservation that bears its name. And after the Obama State Department denied the Keystone XL permission to cross the U.S.-Canadian border in November 2015, they moved their focus to the neighboring Standing Rock Sioux Reservation, where the company Energy Transfer Partners was trying to build the Dakota Access Pipeline. That pipeline would move half a million barrels of oil a day beneath the Missouri River, the main source of drinking water for the Standing Rock Sioux, which is one of the cousin bands to Cheyenne River, as well as for other downstream Sioux reservations. The youths came to believe that the Dakota pipeline was not only a threat to their drinking water but also a harbinger of the larger environmental crisis their generation was set to inherit.Last April, Charger, White Eyes and a few One Mind teenagers and mentors helped establish a tiny “prayer camp” just off the Dakota Access route, on the north end of the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation. Over the next six months that camp grew into an improbable movement that united conservative farmers with the old radicals of the American Indian Movement; urban environmentalists with the traditional chiefs of hundreds of tribes. As Donald Trump pushes forward with the Keystone XL and Dakota Access, he will face a movement emboldened by a victory on Dec. 4, 2016, when the Department of the Army denied an easement for the Dakota Access Pipeline and directed the Army Corps to consider an alternate route. It was a rare triumph for both the environmental and land rights movements, as well as for the American left in an otherwise dark moment. But little remarked upon at the time was the unlikely seed from which the movement had grown: an anti-suicide campaign among a tight-knit group of youths, most younger than 25, impelled by tragedy and guided by prophecy.At the start, the camp seemed like a quixotic undertaking. Lakota culture is effectively run by the old — traditionally young people are supposed to apologize before they even speak in front of elders — so for the youths to take it upon themselves to lead a movement was a radical act. In March, concerned citizens of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, frustrated with the lack of action from their tribal council, the body that functions as the tribe’s official, U.S.-recognized government, put out a call for help to the other Sioux reservations. One Mind Youth made the two-hour drive north to propose setting up a prayer camp modeled on the ones raised against the Keystone XL. The tribal council agreed to set up the camp but offered little other support, pessimistic about the effort. The youths were undeterred. In early April, a handful, joined by a few former Keystone activists, moved into tepees in a protected ravine beside the Cannonball River, on the extreme north end of the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation.Those days, the temperatures were in the 30s and there was still snow on the ground. The youths dubbed the camp Sacred Stone and lit the sacred fire. At first, they lived on little more than bologna sandwiches, potato chips and water. But then residents from the small reservation town of Cannon Ball, up the hill from Sacred Stone, began to bring donations: leftovers from dinner, cut-up wooden corrals for the campfires, a chain saw. Life in the prayer camp was supposed to be lived “in ceremony,” a sort of mindfulness or religious retreat in which all things are done with the intention of maintaining purity. Days began with a water ceremony; the sacred fire had to be regularly fed; meals began with prayer and a “spirit plate” served for the ancestors; alcohol and drugs were strictly forbidden.It was, in other words, the sort of safe place that the youths had been insisting was necessary for them. They needed a haven, Charger explained, to “regroup, figure out what you’re going to do and not worry about where you’re gonna sleep.” The previous fall, they rented a hotel room in Eagle Butte as an informal crash house for Cheyenne River youth, where sometimes as many as 20 teenagers stayed, sleeping and showering, safe from bullying or the lure of alcohol or drugs. The prayer camp at Standing Rock provided something similar. Members of One Mind would drive home every week to resupply and pick up youths who wanted to experience the camp.For Charger and other leaders, as important as the idea of the safe space was the idea that activism would teach children the skills to survive more immediate threats, like bullying and drug abuse. They hoped to pass on skills at the camp that they themselves had been taught by Keystone activists in their community. During the long campaign against the Keystone XL, groups like the Indigenous Environmental Network (I.E.N.) helped set up a “spirit camp” on the Cheyenne River Reservation, about 50 miles southwest of Eagle Butte, where activists prayed and taught the surrounding communities about civil disobedience. The I.E.N. paid for One Mind members to be trained as organizers — they sent Charger to Washington and White Eyes to network with aboriginal climate activists in Australia — and the teenagers and young adults were exposed to ideas and training that linked the pipeline fight to larger struggles in their society. Every direct-action training against the Keystone XL, for example, referenced the prophecy of the black snake, a figure out of Lakota myth that in recent times has been identified with pipelines. But it has a more general meaning: “It symbolizes a darkness, a sickness, whose only intention is to sow dysfunction and loss of life in our communities,” said Dallas Goldtooth, an I.E.N. organizer who worked with Charger and other One Mind members. The message was clear: The struggle against the pipeline was part of the same struggle against alcoholism, suicide and abuse.After weeks at the Standing Rock camp with minimal tribal support, the young people decided that they needed to carry out some sort of public action. “It was important to make the adults see that if you’re going to sit there and argue, we’re gonna go wake up our brothers and sisters,” Charger said. Bobbi Jean Three Legs, a young mother and long-distance runner from Standing Rock who had become active in the camp, had a vision. Her daughter woke her one night to ask for water, and she suddenly saw a day when, thanks to water pollution, there would be no water to give. Soon after that, she and White Eyes proposed a 500-mile relay run from the Sacred Stone Camp to Omaha to deliver a letter to the Army Corps of Engineers, asking it to deny the Dakota Access Pipeline permission to cross the Missouri River. The I.E.N. began a social-media campaign announcing the run and organized a blitz of calls and letters from tribal members on various reservations.Within days, far sooner than expected, an Army Corps representative from the Omaha district agreed to meet with members of the tribe. To some, this meant the youths could call off the run. But they insisted on going ahead. Not only did they still want support from the tribal council; they had also begun to believe that this run could bring together young people from all the Sioux reservations. The seven bands of the people commonly known as the Sioux had organized themselves in the Oceti Sakowin, or “the Seven Council Fires,” a tribal republic that spread out over a vast area, including the Dakotas, Minnesota, Kansas and Nebraska, until federal campaigns forced its members onto the scattered, tiny reservations they occupy now. One Mind saw water as an issue that could unify all Oceti Sakowin youth. And their run had rich cultural resonance: Before Europeans brought horses, long-distance messenger runners held the scattered tribes of Oceti Sakowin together. Three Legs, White Eyes and Charger mapped a route to pass through as many reservations as possible. The run would use a traditional method in which a messenger ran a short distance, about a mile, and then rested while another runner took his or her place. It allowed people who were not very good runners, like Charger, to go on a long-distance run.Three Legs insisted on bringing someone from each of the nine Oceti Sakowin bands, and the run quickly brought in people from reservations that hadn’t been involved with the Standing Rock camp. Daniel Grassrope, now 25, came from the Lower Brule, a band whose reservation lay down the Missouri from Cheyenne River. Grassrope, the second-youngest boy of 13 children, grew up disgusted by the abuse and dysfunction around him, “racist,” he said, “toward my own people.” As a child, he dreamed of being taken away from his family and adopted by whites, something he associated, vaguely, with having his own bedroom and a mother who came to his basketball games. He was getting wasted every night when he saw Three Legs’s Facebook posting asking someone to represent the Lower Brule on the run.The run immediately gave him what Standing Rock would later give many other youths: a sense of purpose he had been lacking. It also inspired something more radical, in a way, than antipipeline activism: the belief that a group of lost people from scattered nations could still find kinship. Grassrope wrote to Three Legs immediately. “I had been praying for something like this,” he said.On April 24, the runners set off south from the Sacred Stone Camp. They ran along the Cannonball River to Highway 1806, then down toward Cheyenne River, their first stop. Grassrope ran next to Charger, who was carrying a heavy staff that represented their ancestors. When she got too tired, Grassrope carried it. In doing so, according to Lakota belief, they were literally carrying all those who had come before. They stayed in churches and community centers and women’s lodges and private homes. At every reservation, they met not only with tribal leaders but also with reservation youths, whom they talked to just as they had in Cheyenne River, telling them about the old ways and the camp upriver where those ways were being revived. “It really caught them off guard,” Charger said, “that they saw youth like them doing it.” Because the Native American community has become heavily networked on social media as a modern means to keep the bands united, word spread far beyond the communities they visited. When the youths arrived in Omaha on May 3, a representative of the Army Corps of Engineers met with them on the steps of the office. They still felt motivated as they went back to Standing Rock. Grassrope quit his job in Lower Brule and settled into the camp with them.By then time seemed to be running out: The Army Corps of Engineers was still considering the Dakota Access Pipeline’s permit, and the Tribal Council still wasn’t offering much support. On July 9, through a video released on YouTube, Bobbi Jean Three Legs and several other runners announced an even more ambitious action: a run that would cover 2,000 miles to Washington, where they would deliver a petition to the Army Corps’ headquarters. “We need your help,” a young woman says in the video. Another woman, with glasses and a long black braid, says, “We’re going to be traveling through many of your towns.” On July 15, 30 runners set out from Sacred Stone, adding more as they made their way along their route. Jasilyn Charger’s estranged twin sister, Jasilea, was one. She was in bed asleep when Jasilyn, passing through Cheyenne River, ran into their house, threw her clothes into a bag and urged her onto their support van. Over the course of the next week or so, a dozen more joined.But on July 26, the runners learned the Army Corps of Engineers had approved the Dakota Access pipeline easements. The black snake was on its way. The runners decided to carry on to Washington, but the focus shifted back to the camp, as I.E.N. activists at Standing Rock urged people via Facebook messages to rise to the standard set by the youths. Across the great archipelago of North America’s Indian reservations and urban communities, people took notice. They loaded cars and buses and camper vans with donations and headed for Standing Rock.Twenty-six-year-old Eryn Wise moved to the camp in late August, at the beginning of what organizers called the big boom, when the population spiked from dozens to thousands. A native of Minneapolis, Wise was raised by her grandmother on the Jicarilla Apache Reservation after a suicide attempt at 11. On the reservation, she was picked on for excelling at school but was surrounded by her siblings, with whom she formed a close bond. But she returned to Minneapolis when she was 16 to care for her mother. When she read an article about the youth run she felt a pull and quit her job. She found her twin siblings, Alex and Lauren Howland, already at the camp.Wise arrived just as the elders began to claim more control over the movement the youths had started. The run, Goldtooth told me, had forced their support by transforming the Dakota Access pipeline from a regional Lakota issue into an international one. Standing Rock council members began to visit the camps and pay for emergency services, propane and portable toilets. The camp had expanded onto the floodplain across the river, and grass-roots activists and members of the unelected traditional leadership, which serves as a sort of parallel Oceti Sakowin government, erected a Council Lodge, a large tepee from the tribe’s past that the young people had only heard about. The Council Lodge was the traditional meeting place of the Oceti Sakowin in the 19th century, when the bands would gather on the Plains. The Council Lodge tepee at Standing Rock was a sign of a new political awakening, as the traditional chiefs and medicine men collaborated with grass-roots organizers — the youth and other Native American factions that had joined — to restore the old, unified tribal republic. It was part of a larger move toward formalizing the prayer camps under a council government. By then, the protests against the pipeline had, for the traditional leadership, become about far more: They had become a long-prophesied end to history.The black-snake, prophesy said, would only be overcome by the Seventh Generation, which would rise up and, as Charger explained, “bring balance to the Earth. Not just to its people. To the Earth.” Many of the youths that I spoke with took this to mean the Seventh Generation had a sort of messianic role to help restore order, on behalf of all beings, to a world thrown out of balance by modernity and greed.“The Seventh Generation is almost cliché in Indian communities,” Goldtooth, the I.E.N. organizer told me. Anyone born between 1980 and the 2000s, he said, “hears about it constantly. The hope that our generation will see a significant shift toward community renewal and nation building and the reminder that our communities expect big things of us.” The Seventh Generation tracks roughly with millennials of all races, but they share their own unique history. The generation between Goldtooth, 34, and Charger, now 20, is the first to have grown up free to be Indian. They are familiar with their ancestors’ scars but also fluent in mainstream American culture.At Standing Rock, the elders, once resistant to their movement, now insisted that the youths accept the responsibility that the prophecy had foretold. In early September, the Seven Council Fires and Chief Arvol Looking Horse, who, for the Lakota Sioux, is something like their head of religion, gave the youths a gift: a chanupa, the ceremonial pipe that is the most sacred element of the Plains religion, a symbol of the knitting together of the human community and nature, ancestors with the living. In a ceremony under the blazing sun, the council deputized the youths as akicita, a Lakota term that means something like “warriors for the people” or “police.” It is difficult to overstate the importance of this gesture. The youths, Looking Horse explained to me, “weren’t really ready for it, but we told them that they’re going to accept it and learn the traditions. We said they had to be of pure mind. They said, ‘We’ll try.’ ”After the ceremony, the youths, who had begun to call themselves the International Indigenous Youth Council, or I.I.Y.C., to symbolize their desire to unite all nations behind a traditional way of life, moved together into a tepee by the Cannonball River. “A lot of our first month or two living together,” Wise said, “was just having someone break down crying.” In her short time at the camp, Wise had become a sort of surrogate mother to the other young people — her nickname even became Ina, or “mother” — and she found herself in charge of a group of about 25 who were barely holding it together, despite the leadership they had assumed. The I.I.Y.C. was the first experience of family for many members. “A lot of them never had the opportunity to be kids, because they were always trying to take care of themselves or take care of their parents.” This process, one of the youth leaders told me, was “terribly beautiful,” an unburdening of the “historical trauma” that had defined their lives. “No one realizes what the repercussions of colonization have been, the repercussions of forced removal,” Wise said. It was hard, she stressed, to explain to people that these were things that had happened recently, to her generation’s parents and grandparents.“I don’t blame my mom,” Charger told me. “Her mother was murdered.” She shrugged. “The abuse lives in our blood.”Charger was referring to Native American history, not just what happened on the frontier but also in more recent decades. After federal campaigns reduced the Oceti Sakowin in the late 1800s, there were nearly 100 years of calculated assault as the state tried to force Native Americans to assimilate. The unified nation of Oceti Sakowin was broken into widely separated reservations, and after Congress privatized reservation land, many starving Lakota families had to sell off their property to white farmers, further cutting the size of reservations. The U.S. Government banned the Sundance, the Plains religions’ most sacred ceremony, with its days of fasting and ritual bloodletting; Native Americans could no longer openly practice their religions. But perhaps most devastating to their psychological health were the boarding schools, in which generations of Indians were sent to schools to be taught white culture. This system reached its nadir in the forced assimilation campaigns of the 1940s and 1950s, when the grandparents of many of the I.I.Y.C. youths were taught English literally under the lash.At Standing Rock, the youths felt they were developing the means to overcome that trauma. The key, as Charger explained it, was to let their history go, which they took as an almost holy responsibility: Forgive, and then take action to spare those who are coming in the future. “We don’t want our children to inherit this depression,” she said. The remarkable thing about this philosophy was that it was deeply practical: not just forgiving “the white man” but also the parent who beat you. For many, this provided a means to re-establish difficult relationships with parents or siblings. But it also helped bind them together into their own sort of family.In the final months of 2016, the camps at Standing Rock grew to more than 10,000, filling with indigenous peoples from hundreds of nations, climate-change activists, members of the Rainbow Family and Burning Man communities and those who simply felt a call. By that point, the role of the I.I.Y.C. had become a sort of advance guard, taking risks and pushing actions forward and winning new young converts to the cause.Thomas Tonatiuh Lopez Jr. was one. A 24-year-old Lakota and Latino from Denver, Lopez grew up the child of AIM and Chicano activists, and as the adopted grandson of the powerful medicine man Leonard Crowdog. He came to Standing Rock in September on a supply run and hadn’t intended to stay. Once he found himself at the camp, Lopez was touched by the message of activism and reconciliation. One afternoon, he was sitting with I.I.Y.C. members, rolling cigarettes for everyone in front of a fire, as Charger talked about the role of youth. “She said one thing that stuck with me: Who better to speak for the past than the voice of the future?” He thought about it as he drove home to Denver, and when he got there, he helped establish a local I.I.Y.C. chapter, drawing from local indigenous and Latino youths. In mid-November, the group took hundreds of Denver high-school students for a march through downtown to protest the Dakota Access Pipeline. Another new chapter, in Chicago, galvanized hundreds for Thanksgiving events that drew in members of other activist groups, including Black Lives Matter, which resulted in black community medics going to serve in Standing Rock’s volunteer medical corps.One factor that helped recruitment into the regional chapters and Standing Rock was the increasing violence by the police at the camps. The images of campers being maced or attacked by dogs spread anger across the country, and many brought that anger to Standing Rock. For traditional leadership, any violence was deeply concerning. Part of the matrix of prophecy that underlies their movement is the idea that should the Oceti Sakowin or their allies resort to violence, they could be wiped out. Among the Native Americans there were strict rules that the protest would have to be done in “peace and prayer.”The youths took this seriously, even as they found themselves under physical threat. Wise, the camp mom, remembers, for instance, watching on Facebook Live as her sister was maced. Furious, she raced to the scene and threw herself at the police. Suddenly there were six hands on her shoulders: I.I.Y.C. members, pulling her back. She saw her brother Alex, his face white with what appeared to be war paint. “He was pointing over my shoulder and shouting, ‘We’ll pray for you, we’ll pray for you!” His face, she realized, was covered in tear gas, “and he was still praying for them. That brought me back.”The youths also tried to reach out to the Morton County Sheriff’s Department, which in the larger camp had come to be seen as the enemy. After the Army Corps of Engineers withdrew permission for the camp in late November, protesters expected the sheriff’s department to violently clear campers off the land. But on Dec. 2, when the department posted on Facebook soliciting donations of granola bars, fruit soda and socks, the I.I.Y.C. showed up with large plastic containers filled with granola bars, warm clothing and water. Lopez, who had returned to the camp to stay in October, made a speech: “Though you have brutalized us, we will not brutalize you.” The station was on lockdown; after a while, an officer looking sheepish in his helmet, faceplate and full body armor, opened the door and accepted the containers. From the crowd, someone yelled for Lopez to explain to the officer why they hadn’t brought soda. Lopez half turned. “We want you to be healthy!” he yelled. “Mni wichoni! Water is life!”It was a small gesture, but one that prompted thanks from the officers and anger from some in the camps. “Why are you supporting them?” Wise remembers people asking. But prophecy was important to the youths; they worried that if the movement became too violent, it would ruin everything they had been trying to build.On Dec. 4, 2016, as thousands of military veterans from across the country crowded the camp in solidarity, the Department of the Army announced its decision to deny an easement for the Dakota Access Pipeline route. The decision was a shock and an unexpected triumph. That night, as a blizzard descended on the camp, David Archambault II, the chairman of the Standing Rock reservation’s official tribal government, presided over a ceremony around the main fire to thank the youths. “When the youth ran to D.C., that’s when this really got started,” Archambault told the crowd, as people lined up to shake the hands of the gathered runners. “We all came here to stand for something greater than whatever we did at home.” Now, with winter bearing down, he said, everyone could begin to go home.But the youths didn’t want to go home. For them, leaving was more complicated. They thought that the “victory” was too tentative. Energy Transfer Partners had announced it would ignore the Army’s decision, and the election of Donald J. Trump had put into office a president who vocally supported both the Dakota Access and Keystone pipelines. “Dave Archambault doesn’t speak for our entire generation,” Jasilyn Charger said. “When he dies, my grandchildren are going to be here, and nobody can speak for them but me.”There was also a more personal problem. Many of them had nowhere else to go. They had become dependent on the I.I.Y.C. for a support network and a place to live. Over their months spent in close quarters, the members of the youth council had bound themselves together not only as friends but as family. The stakes of dissolving the group had become obvious in a more immediate way, too: One of the youth runners had already attempted suicide and been rushed to the hospital in Bismarck. “It’s not safe for them to stay here,” Wise told me in mid-December, as temperatures remained below zero and the ground was covered with ice. “But I also don’t want that to happen to any of these kids.”As the camps emptied out, though, there were not enough resources for everyone to stay, and most of the young people dispersed for the winter, leaving behind a skeleton crew of 10. Wise went home to Minneapolis to begin a job as an organizer for Honor the Earth, an indigenous environmental activist group. Grassrope went back to Lower Brule. Charger was couch-surfing with friends in Eagle Butte. Tribal leaders of the Cheyenne River had found a property for the youth safe house that One Mind had fought for, but progress had stalled, and life for the reservation’s youths was as hard as it had been before. But the I.I.Y.C. were in the process of setting up a 501(c)(3), a nonprofit organization that would allow them to establish some formal order to what had been an ad hoc group.And in January, after a month apart, the I.I.Y.C. youths reunited in Washington for the mass protests against Donald Trump. They were still in Washington when the news came that he had signed executive orders allowing the Dakota Access and Keystone pipelines to proceed. After that, Jasilyn Charger made the trip back to Standing Rock. She planned to spend a couple of days there before heading south to Eagle Butte, where she would organize against the Keystone. “My sole purpose,” she said, “is to create for the youth what we did in Standing Rock at my home in Cheyenne River. To really challenge the youth in my community to follow in the lead of Standing Rock to fight for their own people, because if they don’t, this black snake will not die again.”All believed their work had to spread, not because they necessarily believed they could stop the pipeline but because the movement had connected, as Lopez told me, “youths who would otherwise never have had much interaction.” He offered a practical reason as well: In December, back home in Denver, he got a call from a young person on the verge of suicide. He felt helpless, but he stayed on the phone, “listening to hear, not listening to respond. All I could do was say: ‘You are loved, someone cares about you, not necessarily right where you are, but in your community at Standing Rock. Even if you feel no one loves you, no one cares about you, I love you, I care about you. I want to pray with you again. And if you kill yourself now, I won’t be able to do that.’ ”He paused. “And my brother is still alive today.”

LONDON — Prime Minister Theresa May seemed well on her way Wednesday to winning the parliamentary approval that Britain’s highest court said she needed before she could begin talks on ending more than four decades of European integration.A vote to be taken in the House of Commons will not be the final parliamentary verdict on Mrs. May’s plans, but it is likely to be clear enough to show that any subsequent efforts in Parliament to complicate, or slow, the path to withdrawal would probably be in vain.It comes after two days of intense, sometimes agonized debate over a bill that, in just 137 words, sought permission to take one of the biggest decisions in British political life since World War II.The bill will still need to go to the revising chamber of Parliament, the House of Lords, where there are many opponents of British withdrawal, known as Brexit. But invariably the unelected upper chamber gives way to elected colleagues in the House of Commons, providing there is a clear majority there.Most analysts now expect the bill to complete its passage through Parliament in time for Mrs. May to begin exit negotiations under Article 50 of the European Union’s governing treaty by the end of March, as she has promised.The debate before Wednesday’s vote underlined the extraordinary pace of change in British politics during the last year.Before last year’s referendum on whether to quit the 28-nation bloc, more than half of the elected members of the British Parliament wanted to remain.Wary of the opposition she might face, Mrs. May tried to avoid going to Parliament before invoking Article 50 and agreed to do so only when instructed by the country’s Supreme Court.In hindsight, that looks like a battle she need never have fought.The June 23 plebiscite, in which around 52 percent of those voting chose to leave, has transformed the Conservative Party, which had been split over a British exit, into an enthusiast for it.Though the opposition Labour Party campaigned last year to remain, its leader, Jeremy Corbyn, is a lifelong critic of European integration and never seemed fully convinced about the pro-European case. On Wednesday, he instructed his lawmakers to vote to allow Brexit negotiations to start, an order that was expected to prompt a rebellion within his party.Yet, that looked destined to be limited, because even Labour’s most ardent proponents of remaining know that some of their usual supporters ignored their advice and voted to leave.That has provoked an almost existential crisis for Labour, one hinted at on Tuesday when Keir Starmer, the Labour politician responsible for dealing with the British exit, noted that two-thirds of Labour lawmakers represent constituencies that voted to leave in the referendum.“This is obviously a difficult decision,” he said. “I wish the result had gone the other way — I campaigned passionately for that — but as democrats, we in the Labour Party have to accept the result,” Mr. Starmer said. “It follows that the prime minister should not be blocked from starting the Article 50 negotiations.”That stance has left the Scottish National Party as the clearest source of opposition, but one with insufficient numbers to change the parliamentary arithmetic.David Davis, the minister in charge of negotiating the British exit, told lawmakers that “a point of no return already passed.” Britons, he said, were asked “whether they wanted to leave the European Union, and they decided they did.”“At the core of this bill lies a very simple question: Do we trust the people or not?” Mr. Davis said.Kenneth Clarke, a veteran Conservative lawmaker and former chancellor of the Exchequer, said he would vote against invoking Article 50. “I personally shall be voting with my conscience content, and when we see what unfolds hereafter as we leave the European Union, I hope that the consciences of other members of Parliament will remain equally content,” he said.All the same, it looks increasingly likely that winning British parliamentary approval may be the least of Mrs. May’s problems.Before Parliament’s Northern Ireland affairs select committee, a former senior European Union customs official, Michael Lux, warned of the likelihood of checks at the border between Northern Ireland and Ireland, something Mrs. May and Northern Ireland officials dearly want to avoid.Speaking to a separate committee, Ivan Rogers, who resigned recently as Britain’s permanent representative to the European Union, said the exit talks would be on a “humongous” scale and would be conducted with “name-calling” and in an “extremely feisty atmosphere.”Mr. Rogers left his post after his assessment of the complexity of leaving the bloc fell out of step with the government’s, prompting him to send a resignation letter urging his former colleagues to “challenge ill-founded arguments and muddled thinking, and that you will never be afraid to speak the truth to those in power.”He has said that British politicians in charge of the exit are not grappling with the true costs and enormous scale of the task. European Union officials were suggesting that Britain should pay from $43 billion to $65 billion to resolve its outstanding liabilities before leaving, and reaching a trade deal between Britain and the bloc could take until the mid-2020s, he said.“It’s a negotiation on the scale that we haven’t experienced ever, certainly not since the Second World War,” Mr. Rogers added.
LONDON — Easily winning a crucial vote among lawmakers, Prime Minister Theresa May was well on her way Wednesday to winning the parliamentary approval that Britain’s highest court said she needed before she could begin talks on ending more than four decades of European integration.Wednesday’s vote, in the House of Commons, will not be the final parliamentary verdict on Mrs. May’s plans, but with 498 lawmakers in favor and 114 against, it was emphatic enough to show that any subsequent efforts in Parliament to complicate, or slow, the path to withdrawal would probably be in vain.The vote took place after two days of intense, sometimes agonized debate over a bill that, in just 137 words, sought permission to take one of the biggest decisions in British political life since World War II.The bill will still need to go to the revising chamber of Parliament, the House of Lords, where there are many opponents of British withdrawal, known as Brexit. But invariably the unelected upper chamber gives way to elected colleagues in the House of Commons, providing there is a clear majority there.Most analysts now expect the bill to complete its passage through Parliament in time for Mrs. May to begin exit negotiations under Article 50 of the European Union’s governing treaty by the end of March, as she has promised.The debate before Wednesday’s vote underlined the extraordinary pace of change in British politics during the past year.Before last year’s referendum on whether to quit the 28-nation bloc, more than half of the elected members of the British Parliament wanted to remain.Wary of the opposition she might face, Mrs. May tried to avoid going to Parliament before invoking Article 50 and agreed to do so only when instructed by the country’s Supreme Court.In hindsight, that looks like a battle she need never have fought.The June 23 plebiscite, in which around 52 percent of those voting chose to leave, has transformed the Conservative Party, which had been split over a British exit, into an enthusiast for it.Though the opposition Labour Party campaigned last year to remain, its leader, Jeremy Corbyn, is a lifelong critic of European integration and never seemed fully convinced about the pro-European case. On Wednesday, he instructed his lawmakers to vote to allow Brexit negotiations to start, an order that prompted a rebellion within his party.Yet, that was limited to less than 50 people, because even Labour’s most ardent proponents of remaining know that some of their usual supporters ignored their advice and voted to leave.That has provoked an almost existential crisis for Labour, one hinted at on Tuesday when Keir Starmer, the Labour politician responsible for dealing with the British exit, noted that two-thirds of Labour lawmakers represent constituencies that voted to leave in the referendum.“This is obviously a difficult decision,” he said. “I wish the result had gone the other way — I campaigned passionately for that — but as democrats, we in the Labour Party have to accept the result,” Mr. Starmer said. “It follows that the prime minister should not be blocked from starting the Article 50 negotiations.”That stance has left the Scottish National Party as the clearest source of opposition, but one with insufficient numbers to change the parliamentary arithmetic. On Wednesday night, Stephen Gethins, who speaks for the party on European issues, described the vote as “a devastating act of sabotage on Scotland’s economy and our very social fabric.”David Davis, the minister in charge of negotiating the British exit, told lawmakers that “a point of no return already passed.” Britons, he said, were asked “whether they wanted to leave the European Union, and they decided they did.”“At the core of this bill lies a very simple question: Do we trust the people or not?” Mr. Davis said.Kenneth Clarke, a veteran Conservative lawmaker and former chancellor of the Exchequer, said before the vote that he would vote against invoking Article 50. “I personally shall be voting with my conscience content, and when we see what unfolds hereafter as we leave the European Union, I hope that the consciences of other members of Parliament will remain equally content,” he said.All the same, it looks increasingly likely that winning British parliamentary approval may be the least of Mrs. May’s problems.Before Parliament’s Northern Ireland affairs select committee, a former senior European Union customs official, Michael Lux, warned of the likelihood of checks at the border between Northern Ireland and Ireland, something Mrs. May and Northern Ireland officials dearly want to avoid.Speaking to a separate committee, Ivan Rogers, who resigned recently as Britain’s permanent representative to the European Union, said the exit talks would be on a “humongous” scale and would be conducted with “name-calling” and in an “extremely feisty atmosphere.”Mr. Rogers left his post after his assessment of the complexity of leaving the bloc fell out of step with the government’s, prompting him to send a resignation letter urging his former colleagues to “challenge ill-founded arguments and muddled thinking, and that you will never be afraid to speak the truth to those in power.”He has said that British politicians in charge of the exit are not grappling with the true costs and enormous scale of the task. European Union officials were suggesting that Britain should pay from $43 billion to $65 billion to resolve its outstanding liabilities before leaving, and reaching a trade deal between Britain and the bloc could take until the mid-2020s, he said.“It’s a negotiation on the scale that we haven’t experienced ever, certainly not since the Second World War,” Mr. Rogers added.

A week after the presidential election, while walking through the farmers’ market in Union Square, I came across a young woman giving out free hugs to strangers. I gladly accepted one. Balm.A day later, a friend told me that a Lutheran pastor on the Upper East Side has been dispensing free counsel on the sidewalk on Tuesday mornings while sitting in a wooden booth that he had made to the exact specifications of Lucy’s in the comic strip “Peanuts,” complete with a sign reading, “Spiritual Help, 5 cents. The pastor is in.” (Nickels are provided.)Street preachers. Huggers without portfolio. If stores and restaurants can pop up, why can’t the helping professions?“I’m not surprised that there’s a resurgence of this stuff,” said Anna Carter Florence, an ordained Presbyterian minister and the Peter Marshall Professor of Preaching at Columbia Theological Seminary in Decatur, Ga., who said she saw a group of women giving free hugs outdoors in Toronto in November. “Historically, street preaching has to do with the proclamation of injustice and freedom for the oppressed. It’s a kind of street theater. It’s sacred jesters.”Indeed, some of today’s pop-up spiritualists are overtly political. Amichai Lau-Lavie, a Conservative rabbi who is the founder of both Lab/Shul NYC and Storahtelling Inc., helped organize an interfaith vigil in Washington Square Park on the night of the election. “We sang, we shared words of comfort, I made everyone do a primal scream,” he said. “A couple hundred people, 30 seconds of screaming. So powerful.”Ten days later, Mr. Lau-Lavie stood with other protesters in front of a mosque on 55th Street, holding signs bearing words of solidarity with Muslims. “A lot of passers-by did a double take,” Mr. Lau-Lavie said. “But interrupting business as usual and defying the normal, it’s very profound.”Justin Normand, a manager of a Dallas sign shop, had a similar idea in November: He stood in front of the Islamic Center of Irving in Irving, Tex., holding a sign reading, “You belong.” Though Mr. Normand does not typically wear a cowboy hat, he did during his vigil, hoping to symbolize a part of Texas that he felt Muslims needed to hear from.In a subsequent Facebook post, Mr. Normand explained his efforts: “This was about binding up the wounded. About showing compassion and empathy for the hurting and fearful among us. Or, in some Christian traditions, this was about washing my brother’s feet. This was about my religion, not theirs.”But other pop-up spiritualists say their aim is not political. The Rev. Gregory Fryer, the pastor of Immanuel Lutheran Church in Manhattan, said his “Peanuts”-style booth had nothing to do with the election.“I simply believe that there are hungry hearts in this city,” he said. Asked if publicity was a motivator, he confessed: “Well, that is true. The first times I set up the booth, in October, I hoped people would begin to recognize me and the church. This church is a little intimidating-looking; people may think it’s an armory. But, as time has gone by, things have reversed. Now I think of myself as Jason Bourne: I’m memorizing the face of everyone who goes by. I want to recognize that these are my neighbors.”The jurisdiction of today’s pop-up spiritualists is not confined to the tactile and the spiritual. Ciro Ortiz, 11, has been offering “emotional advice” for $2 a session at the Bedford Avenue subway stop on the L line in Brooklyn since October. Two springs ago, Jedediah Purses started offering free psychological counseling on the streets of San Francisco. “I’d done a lot of informal trainings in this kind of work and wanted to see what my skill set was,” he said. “And I’m endlessly fascinated with what it’s like to offer yourself up and to let the world come at you.”Mr. Purses has had clients confess “all sorts of crazy crimes” to him. He has befriended homeless people. He’s fended off numerous offers from passers-by selling drugs. He’s had extended conversations with police officers about the moral and ethical struggles of their job.“I’ve dealt with anger from people of color who were annoyed to see white people shedding tears over the election — ‘You didn’t know that it’s like this all the time for us?’” he said.The demands of the street are not insignificant. Pastor Fryer stocks his booth with Kleenex; Mr. Normand has his husband fielding media requests.“This sounds like a New Yorker cartoon come to life,” said Andrew Walsh, the associate director of the Leonard E. Greenberg Center for the Study of Religion in Public Life at Trinity College in Hartford. “The forces of orderly commerce do seem, however, to have excluded these folk from the shopping malls.”On a blustery December day, I talked to Bugun Choi, who had already spent four hours holding a placard in Union Square to bring attention to his self-help nonprofit organization, the Society of Natural Science. I suggested to Mr. Choi that it was a cold day to be standing on a street corner. “I am armed perfectly,” he said. “I bought these earmuffs for this.”Then, when our conversation stretched 12 or 15 minutes longer than I hoped, I confessed: “I need to go inside. I’m starting to feel frostbit on my delicate parts.” Mr. Choi smiled wanly.Many people ascribe to street preachers and freelance huggers a touch of craziness. “Most of us give them a wide berth,” said Ms. Florence, the priest and professor. “I see them in Times Square and think, wow, but for a health plan and a set of meds, there go I.”Accordingly, some pop-up spiritualists will take pains to be noninvasive and approachable. “I let people come to me,” said Mr. Purses, the counselor in San Francisco. “I occupy myself by reading a book or taking notes, which gives people the chance to shamelessly check me out without the possibility of me looking back at them.”Mr. Lau-Lavie, the rabbi, said he labored to “be cautious, be alert, be polite” when conducting services alfresco.“I’ll be perfectly honest, there’s an element of fear,” he said. “At our vigil on election night, there were some people at the edge of our circle who started yelling, ‘Trump! Trump! Trump!’ It was never violent, but it was hard.”If there is an element of gonzo to this new crop of pop-up spiritualist, such assiduousness is in perfect keeping with the history of street preaching. Ms. Florence cited research done by her colleague Charles Campbell, a professor of homiletics at Duke Divinity School, to point out that there is a long tradition of street preachers who preach naked.“St. Basil spent 70 years wandering the streets, completely naked in the Russian winter, preaching,” she said. “The nakedness was intentional, and meant to unmask social hierarchy. Ivan the Terrible was so troubled by Basil, and so terrified of him, that he never had him arrested or killed. Basil used to throw meat at him!”If the measures that pop-up spiritualists take sometimes seem over the top — the primal screaming, the cartoon-derived booth, the cowboy hat — they are part of the package. Ms. Florence said, “Holy fools speak in big language, trying to say something like what Flannery O’Connor said: When you’re preaching to those whose imaginations have grown numb, you have to preach big.”
About 540 million years ago, our ancestors were insignificant creatures no more than a millimeter in size. They wriggled around in the sediments of shallow seas, gulped prey into their minuscule, baglike bodies and expelled the water through cone-shaped spouts around their mouths.Animals this small do not fossilize well, which is why this stage of the distant evolutionary past is so little known. A cache of 45 individuals has now been unearthed in Shaanxi Province, in central China. They are described in the Monday issue of the journal Nature by a team led by Jian Han of Northwest University in Xi’an, China.The creatures are the oldest known members of an ancient group called deuterostomes, said Simon Conway Morris, a paleontologist at Cambridge University in England and a member of the team. Deuterostomes, which lie pretty close to the base of the family tree of all animals, are ancestral not just to humans but to a wide array of animals ranging from sea urchins and starfish to the vast family of vertebrates.The deuterostomes, a name that means “mouth second” in Greek, were so called by anatomists to distinguish them from the protostomes, or “mouth firsters,” the other members of a vast group of animals with bilateral symmetry. In the early embryo — a sphere of cells formed shortly after the egg is fertilized — the protostomes form the mouth first, anus second. The deuterostomes do it the other way round.But strangely, the new deuterostome fossils seem to have no anus, presumably using the mouth for evacuation. At least the researchers cannot see one. “Our material is generally crushed, and despite the superb preservation we might have overlooked the evidence,” Dr. Conway Morris said.The fossils were found in rock strata, stated to be some 540 million years old in a news release issued by St. John’s College, Cambridge, of which Dr. Conway Morris is a fellow. The release describes the fossils as “the earliest known prehistoric ancestor of humans,” referring to their status as the earliest known deuterostomes. Although slightly older animal fossils are known, they lie on branches of the tree of life that do not lead to humans.
The parade of fees on college campuses never seems to end. There are extra charges to start college, such as orientation fees and freshman fees, and extra charges to finish, such as senior fees and commencement fees. There are nickel-and-dime fees, like $8.50 at Indiana University to drop a class after two days, and large ones, like $3,049 to major in digital media and animation at Alfred State College, State University of New York.Then there are all the mandatory charges rolled into the published “tuition and fees,” including a slew of euphemistically named fees for costs that used to be covered by tuition, like the annual $814 “student success fee” at California Polytechnic State and the $3,324 “academic excellence fee” for entering students at the University of Oklahoma. Both go mainly toward faculty recruitment and salaries.Bursars are tacking more and more charges onto your bill, raising revenue for their underfunded colleges and causing all kinds of financial headaches for unsuspecting students.“This is a way to try to disguise the actual price of college,” said Richard Vedder, an Ohio University professor and director of the Center for College Affordability and Productivity. Some colleges respond to the public outcry over soaring costs by freezing or capping tuition. But far fewer restrict fee increases. So with tuition unable to cover costs, thanks to freezes and budget cuts by state legislatures, many public colleges are using fees to help pay for core instruction.Since 1999, mandatory fees have risen 30 percent more than tuition has, said Robert Kelchen, an assistant professor at Seton Hall University who has studied the issue. The average fee at four-year public colleges was almost $1,700 in 2015-16. That’s nearly 20 percent of the tuition and fee average.Some families are stunned by the hundreds — sometimes thousands — in extra dollars they are suddenly required to pay. Supplemental fees are usually disclosed but are often buried on the college’s website.“Every time you got a bill, you opened it with some trepidation,” said Tim Roach, father of two University of Dayton graduates and one current student. He was frustrated by how the university would “play games with tuition.” Dayton sympathizes. Only when it began researching complaints did it realize how often departments were charging fees for course labs and other materials.In 2012, students paid $1,400 in mandatory fees as well as, on average, $700 in supplemental fees. About 8 percent paid more than $12,000 over the course of their college careers, said Jason Reinoehl, vice president of enrollment management. The university eliminated all fees in 2013, deciding it had a moral obligation to do something different, he said.While mandatory fees are covered by financial aid, course fees may not be. After all, students receive their aid package before they register for classes. Experts advise: Petition your financial aid office.Scholarships might also cover only tuition, leaving recipients who don’t read the fine print with a surprising balance. That’s what happened to Valerie Innis: When she won a full-tuition scholarship to the University of Massachusetts, she thought she was going to college free — until she received an ominous email sophomore year. “Check your balance,” it said, and when Ms. Innis looked at her account, she discovered an outstanding bill of $16,000.The University of Massachusetts has been doing some fancy bookkeeping for decades to insulate itself from cuts to the state education budget. In-state tuition last year was just $1,714, while fees cost more than seven times that much: $12,457. That’s largely because of its hefty curriculum fee, created in 1989. While the university had to turn tuition over to the state, it could keep all fee revenue — an arrangement that ended this summer under a new state law that allows it to retain tuition revenue. Curriculum fees are gone, as is the full-tuition scholarship, now replaced with one valued at $1,714.“If I had known I wasn’t going to college for free, I would have started at a community college,” said Ms. Innis, who graduated last spring $35,000 in debt.Unexpected fees can wreck family finances.“Many, many people are really budgeting down to the dime to make it possible to go to school,” said Patti Demoff, a founder of the College Circuit counseling service in Los Angeles. She said she spent hours analyzing financial aid with one family to figure out if Boston University could be affordable. Shortly after the young woman enrolled, she was notified of its $265 fee for mandatory orientation. Each parent would cost another $130, not counting airfare from California and other expenses.“I was outraged,” Ms. Demoff said. “For these kids, $1,000 is enormous.”Students occasionally protest over fees. At the University of Arizona, more than 8,000 students signed a petition in 2014 on Change.org complaining of a 2.5 percent convenience fee to pay bursar’s bills with a credit card. Another complaint: a $300 fee tacked onto sociology courses, primarily to pay for tutoring, a basic educational service.But their wrath is aimed more at state government than administrators. Arizona slashed $99 million from the university system’s budget last year. In an article entitled “Course Fees a Necessary Evil” in The Arizona Daily Wildcat, a student railed against the “harsh (and slimy) political realities of our state leadership.”So where does all this money go?At Rutgers, the local teachers union got hold of budget records detailing what happened in recent years with the university’s $170 dance appreciation course fee.The fee was supposed to help defray the costs of visiting artists and performance tickets, but one year $125,685 went toward building renovations, and another year $399,000 was used to buy and improve equipment. Only about $36 of each $170 fee was spent on performances between 2012 and 2014, according to David M. Hughes, the union president.“The purpose of the course fee is not to accumulate a slush fund,” Dr. Hughes said, calling the fees “backdoor tuition.”A 2015 audit found that some fee money had been “used too broadly,” a Rutgers spokesman acknowledged. But, he said, new policies would prevent future problems. The fee in 2016, meanwhile, was reduced to $100.New Jersey’s comptroller audited three state universities where fees made up about a third of tuition and fee charges. He found that some money subsidized payroll expenses, and suggested that the universities be more transparent. Administrators countered that, with state funding cuts of 29 percent over the last decade, they are forced to use fees to make up for budget shortfalls and pay for construction projects.At the University of Oklahoma, Norman, fees increase proportionally more than tuition. The reason, according to Matt Hamilton, vice president for enrollment and student financial services, is to make sure students receiving full-tuition scholarships shoulder some of the financial burden. The university’s fees are now $3,803 — 45 percent of its total tuition and fee charges. Mr. Hamilton is quick to add that students voted in favor of this approach.It isn’t unusual for universities to leave it to students to vote on whether to raise fees or create new ones. That sounds nice, Dr. Vedder says, but he believes universities use students “for cover.” They know most will vote to improve their campuses, he said, rather than worry about their parents’ budgets.After an official at California Polytechnic State said that its financial situation had caused “the most volatile, unpredictable environment” ever, students voted for the success fee, now $814, to reduce class size. That’s on top of a $1,147 campus academic fee, a $694 university union fee, a $307 instructionally related activities fee, and a $314 associated student fee. More than 100 new teachers have been hired using success fees. Tuition at Cal Poly and other California State campuses has been frozen for five years.“You can mandate freezes all you want,” said Tom Allison, a director at Young Invincibles, a national research group that helps expand economic opportunity for young adults. “But the money has to come from somewhere.”
Enjoy the guacamole as you watch the Super Bowl on Feb. 5. Some of the ingredients might be a little more expensive next year.House Republicans and President Trump have been talking about imposing a 20 percent tax on imported goods, with a White House spokesman suggesting on Thursday that such a tax might start with goods from Mexico. With the tax, the price for some heavily imported items could go up. But other foods produced mainly in the United States might become slightly cheaper.While many details remain unclear, here are a few indications of how the tax might work and how it would affect prices in the fruit and vegetable aisle at the supermarket.A third of all avocados eaten by Americans are grown in the United States and the rest are imported. More than nine of every 10 imported avocados come from Mexico, while most of the rest come from Chile, Peru and the Dominican Republic.The average retail price of an avocado varies considerably. Prices can creep up toward $1.50 for the Super Bowl and Fourth of July, the two biggest spikes in demand. The retail price falls toward $1 apiece around Christmas, as demand falters but the trees, grown in mild, subtropical climates, keep producing. Organically grown avocados have been commanding a premium of about 30 percent lately, a premium that has widened over the last few years.The tax would not end up being 20 percent of a $1 to $1.50 avocado, which would be 20 to 30 cents. That is because the import tax would only be on what is known a the dutiable value — the wholesale price of the avocado assessed when it crosses the border.That does not include the cost of trucking it from the border to a grocery store in the United States, the store’s rent, the store’s bills for air-conditioning and other utilities, or the wages for the store’s staff. None of these costs would be subject to the tax, but can help determine the retail price of the avocado.For the first 11 months of last year, the average wholesale price of avocados crossing the border was 50 cents apiece.So a 20 percent tax on that wholesale price at the border would only add a dime to the cost of each avocado.It takes four or five years for a newly planted avocado tree to bear fruit. If an import tax were to be imposed on foreign avocados, American farmers could not increase production quickly. That means many Americans might have to pay for taxed avocados imported from Mexico and elsewhere for a few years, or potentially do without.That is right — a good guacamole needs onions, lime juice and a few other ingredients as well. Just look at onions.Seven out of eight onions eaten by Americans are grown in the United States. They also tend to be grown by companies — even the smaller-scale onion farmers tend to incorporate their farms — so they owe corporate tax.That is notable because various plans being circulated call for a border tax to be used to help reduce the corporate profits tax.Right now, the corporate profits tax is 35 percent. Multinationals like Apple actually pay a lot less, in part because much of their profits are held offshore. That is harder for an onion farmer to do, although there are tax breaks for farmers.With those qualifiers, the introduction of a border tax is expected to produce enough revenue to offset the losses from lowering the tax on corporate profits to 25 percent, 20 percent or even 15 percent, depending on the proposal. That would ultimately help cut the tax bill for onion farmers.The whole idea behind the House Republicans’ plan is that companies producing in the United States should pay lower taxes, so those companies can hire more workers. The tax burden would be shifted toward importers, but also toward people who buy imported goods.Companies tend to pass on the cost of taxes to consumers, while pocketing any tax savings, when there are only a few businesses in the industry and limited competition. The opposite can also be true: companies in highly competitive industries tend to pay extra taxes out of their own profits, because raising prices might result in lower market share. In those cases, they tend to pass on tax savings to consumers.Onion farmers might also use their tax savings to hire more workers and export more. The United States imports a few more onions than it exports, but most onion farmers simply grow for the domestic market. A corporate tax cut linked to a border tax might prompt them to expand globally, which is the whole idea behind a border tax.That is tough to predict, and also depends on inflation and other factors, not just the border tax. The odds are that a border tax would drive up the cost of guacamole, because avocados, not onions, account for most of the cost of making it, and most avocados are imported. But the details of the tax, and how markets respond to it, will also make a big difference.

TOKYO — Ill-fated investments in nuclear power projects by Toshiba of Japan have already precipitated an embarrassing accounting scandal at the company. Now the company is selling its most valuable business to try to undo the damage.Toshiba, one of Japan’s oldest and proudest technology conglomerates, said on Friday it would spin off its microchip division. The business makes the information-storing “brains” inside millions of smartphones, digital cameras and other devices, and it has been the biggest contributor to Toshiba’s profits in recent years.The move is evidence of Toshiba’s desperation for cash after the punishing nuclear-related losses came to light last month.In December, Toshiba warned it was preparing to write off “several billion U.S. dollars” because of ballooning expenses at its American nuclear subsidiary, Westinghouse. That followed Toshiba’s admission in 2015 that it had inflated its earnings by $1.2 billion over seven years — a scandal that company investigators attributed in part to nuclear-project managers, who they said had disguised faltering revenues and cost overruns.Toshiba is expected to detail the extent of its write-downs next month. Analysts have suggested they could amount to $4 billion to $7 billion, enough to put Toshiba’s future at risk. Banks have indicated they will keep lending money so the company can pay its bills, but without that lifeline, Toshiba, a 140-year-old business, could collapse.Toshiba said it had not yet decided what form the semiconductor spinoff would take, or how much of the business it would sell to outsiders. But there is not much time to figure it out; the company said it wanted to complete the process by March 31, the end of its fiscal year.Analysts estimate the semiconductor business could be worth between 1.5 trillion and 2 trillion yen, or $13 billion to $17 billion, if Toshiba sold all of it. One option would be to sell shares to the public, though a private sale to another technology company would be quicker and easier to arrange, particularly if Toshiba chose to keep part of the company.Damian Thong, an analyst at Macquarie Securities, said bringing in a minority investor was “clearly the default option” for Toshiba, which is eager to stay in the semiconductor business.“Undermining that core business would be anathema in Japan, not just for Toshiba, but for the government and the whole technology ecosystem,” he said. “It needs to sell just enough to give creditors peace of mind, but not enough that it loses control.”Some see broader national interests at stake.Getting out of semiconductors entirely would not just deprive Toshiba of a crucial future revenue stream. If a foreign buyer swooped in, it would also take one of Japan’s few remaining semiconductor producers out of domestic hands. The business’s most successful technology, NAND flash memory, was developed by Toshiba decades ago.One public declaration of interest in Toshiba has come from Canon, the Japanese camera company, which uses Toshiba’s chips in its products and bought a medical device producer Toshiba spun off in 2015.Canon’s chairman, Fujio Mitarai, is a former head of Keidanren, the lobbying group representing Japan’s largest corporations, including Toshiba. He said last week that the semiconductor business was a valuable asset for Japan and “must be protected” and that Canon “would positively consider” investing.Other potential buyers include Western Digital, the American semiconductor company, which works with Toshiba in some areas; Tokyo Electron, a Japanese company that produces equipment for semiconductor factories; and Foxconn of Taiwan, the contract manufacturer that recently took over Sharp, another ailing Japanese technology brand.Terry Gou, Foxconn’s billionaire founder, said in an interview with Toyo Keizai, a Japanese business weekly, that he was interested in purchasing assets sold off by Toshiba, potentially including the semiconductor operation.
WASHINGTON — Travelers were stranded around the world, protests escalated in the United States and anxiety rose within President Trump’s party on Sunday as his order closing the nation to refugees and people from certain predominantly Muslim countries provoked a crisis just days into his administration.The White House pulled back on part of Mr. Trump’s temporary ban on visitors from seven countries by saying that it would not apply to those with green cards granting them permanent residence in the United States. By the end of the day, the Department of Homeland Security formally issued an order declaring legal residents exempt from the order.But the recalibration did little to reassure critics at home or abroad who saw the president’s order as a retreat from traditional American values. European leaders denounced the order, and some Republican lawmakers called on Mr. Trump to back down. As of Sunday evening, officials said no one was being held at American airports, although lawyers said they believed that dozens were still being detained.More than any of the myriad moves Mr. Trump has made in his frenetic opening days in office, the immigration order has quickly come to define his emerging presidency as one driven by a desire for decisive action even at the expense of deliberate process or coalition building. It has thrust the nine-day-old administration into its first constitutional conflict, as multiple courts have intervened to block aspects of the order, and into its broadest diplomatic incident, with overseas allies objecting.The White House was left to defend what seemed to many government veterans like a slapdash process. Aides to Mr. Trump insisted they had consulted for weeks with relevant officials, but the head of the customs and border service in the Obama administration, who resigned on inauguration day, said the incoming president’s team never talked with him about it.White House officials blamed what they portrayed as a hyperventilating news media for the confusion and said the order had been successfully carried out. Only about 109 travelers were detained in the first 24 hours, out of the 325,000 who typically enter the United States in a day, they said. As of Sunday evening, the Department of Homeland Security said 392 green card holders had been granted waivers to enter. That did not count many visitors who remained overseas now unable to travel.Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, said Mr. Trump simply did what he had promised on the campaign trail and would not gamble with American lives. “We’re not willing to be wrong on this subject,” he said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “President Trump is not willing to take chances on this subject.”The order bars entry to refugees from anywhere in the world for 120 days and from Syria indefinitely. It blocks any visitors for 90 days from seven designated countries: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. The Department of Homeland Security initially said the order would bar green card holders from those seven countries from returning to the United States.With thousands of protesters chanting outside his White House windows and thronging the streets of Washington and other cities, Mr. Trump late on Sunday defended his order. “To be clear, this is not a Muslim ban, as the media is falsely reporting,” he said in a written statement. “This is not about religion — this is about terror and keeping our country safe.”He noted that the seven countries were identified by former President Barack Obama’s administration as sources of terrorism and that his order did not affect citizens from dozens of other predominantly Muslim countries. “We will again be issuing visas to all countries once we are sure we have reviewed and implemented the most secure policies over the next 90 days,” he said.Mr. Trump expressed sympathy for victims of the long-running civil war in Syria. “I have tremendous feeling for the people involved in this horrific humanitarian crisis in Syria,” he said. “My first priority will always be to protect and serve our country, but as president, I will find ways to help all those who are suffering.”While Mr. Trump denied that his action focused on religion, the first iteration of his plan during his presidential campaign was framed as a temporary ban on all Muslim visitors.As late as Sunday morning, he made clear that his concern was for Christian refugees, and part of his order gives preferential treatment to Christians who try to enter the United States from majority-Muslim nations.In a Twitter post on Sunday morning, Mr. Trump deplored the killing of Christians in the Middle East without noting the killings of Muslims, who have been killed in vastly greater numbers in Iraq, Syria and elsewhere.“Christians in the Middle East have been executed in large numbers,” he wrote. “We cannot allow this horror to continue!”His order, however, resulted in a second day of uncertainty at American airports. The American Civil Liberties Union said it was investigating reports that officials were not complying with court orders in New York, Boston, Seattle, Los Angeles and Chicago.New York’s attorney general sent a letter to federal authorities demanding a list of all individuals detained at Kennedy International Airport. The Department of Homeland Security said on Sunday evening that it was “in compliance with judicial orders.”Still, at Dulles International Airport outside Washington, even the arrival of four Democratic members of Congress did not prompt customs officers to acknowledge whether they were holding anyone or provide lawyers access to anyone detained.The lawmakers arrived after 3 p.m. and were rebuffed by police officers when they tried to enter the Customs and Border Protection offices at the airport. Representative Gerry Connolly, Democrat of Virginia, said he was told to call the main office of the agency in Washington.His staff got a legislative liaison from the customs service on the phone, and “they said we’ll put you in touch with the deputy commissioner,” Mr. Connolly said.“I said that’s not acceptable,” he continued. “We want to talk to the person in charge of operations at Dulles Airport. That’s where the problem is, and that’s where the federal judicial ruling is applicable.”The clash over the order provoked emotional responses. At a news conference, Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic minority leader from New York, choked up as he vowed to “claw, scrap and fight with every fiber of my being until these orders are overturned.”The mayors of New York, Chicago and Boston spoke out, as well. In Dallas, Mayor Mike Rawlings personally offered regrets to four released detainees at Dallas-Fort Worth Airport. “We have wished them welcome, and we have apologized from the depths of our heart,” he said. Chelsea Clinton joined a protest in New York.The order roiled relations with America’s traditional allies in Europe and the Middle East. The spokesman for Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany said she “is convinced that the resolute fight against terrorism does not justify blanket suspicion on grounds of origin or belief.”Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain, who met with Mr. Trump in Washington on Friday and has sought to forge a friendship with him, initially declined to comment on the policy on Saturday when pressed by reporters during a stop in Turkey.But under pressure from opposition politicians, her spokesman later said the British government did “not agree with this kind of approach.”The matter was especially sensitive in Muslim countries, and Mr. Trump spoke by telephone on Sunday with King Salman of Saudi Arabia and Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the crown prince of Abu Dhabi. White House statements on the calls said they discussed the fight against terrorism but did not say whether they discussed the immigration order, which did not include their countries.In Washington, protesters gathered by the thousands outside Mr. Trump’s front lawn to denounce his order and show solidarity with Muslim Americans.“Shame,” they chanted, hoisting homemade signs toward the executive mansion, where Mr. Trump was scheduled to host a private screening of the movie “Finding Dory.”“No hate, no fear,” they added later. “Refugees are welcome here.”Security fencing and reviewing stands still in place from the inauguration prevented the crowd from getting more than a couple hundred yards away from the building, but did not stop crowds from swelling through the afternoon, when protesters departed to march to Capitol Hill.Some Republicans grew increasingly alarmed by the backlash to the order. “This executive order sends a signal, intended or not, that America does not want Muslims coming into our country,” Senators John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said in a statement. “That is why we fear this executive order may do more to help terrorist recruitment than improve our security.”Some conservative donors also criticized the decision. Officials with the political network overseen by Charles G. and David H. Koch, the billionaire conservative activists, released a statement on Sunday criticizing Mr. Trump’s handling of the issue.“We believe it is possible to keep Americans safe without excluding people who wish to come here to contribute and pursue a better life for their families,” said Brian Hooks, a chairman of the Kochs’ donor network. “The travel ban is the wrong approach and will likely be counterproductive.”Senator Bob Corker, the chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, said the order was “poorly implemented” and urged the president to “make appropriate revisions.” Other Republicans were more circumspect. Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican majority leader, said the issue would be decided by the courts.Mr. Trump fired back at Mr. McCain and Mr. Graham on Twitter. “They are sadly weak on immigration,” he wrote. “Senators should focus their energies on ISIS, illegal immigration and border security instead of always looking to start World War III.”
Rosanne Bloom and her family had just settled into their seats on a flight from Philadelphia to Turks and Caicos Islands on Christmas morning when two airline employees ordered Dr. Bloom, her husband and two boys off the plane. Their luggage had already been removed.The problem? Dr. Bloom had informed the crew that her teenage sons had severe nut allergies.“I said, ‘We have our medicine. We brought our own food, and we’re comfortable staying on the plane.’ I offered to sign a waiver,” said Dr. Bloom, an orthodontist from Clarksville, Md. “We were off the plane in two minutes.”Matt Miller, a spokesman for American Airlines, said such decisions are left to the pilot. “The pilot determined it would be best for the family not to travel based on the severity of the allergy and the need to divert the airline if anyone were eating nuts,” he said.Airline carriers have a long tradition of serving peanuts on flights, and often serve little else. But the practice also presents a challenge to travelers with severe nut allergies, who can suffer a reaction simply by touching a surface that has been exposed to nuts.But tensions between passengers with food allergies and airline staff members have risen in recent years, as airlines have begun to enforce stricter rules related to preboarding passengers. In the past, parents of young children could board the plane early, giving them a chance to wipe down seats, trays and armrests to reduce exposure to allergens. But today many airlines have stopped letting families with children board before other passengers.When families request permission to preboard — or pose another request, such as asking whether nuts will be served — they risk being taken off the flight or threatened with removal, said Mary Vargas, a lawyer whose family was almost kept off a plane from London back to the United States in December because of a nut allergy.Now families with nut allergies are waging a legal challenge against such policies. Two formal complaints filed with the Department of Transportation in the last month accuse American Airlines of discrimination against passengers with allergies. The complaints cite the airline’s preboarding policy, which  prohibits preboarding specifically for people with allergies, and not for others.“This is about being allowed to fly like everybody else in the United States,” said Ms. Vargas, the lawyer representing the families.Although nobody tracks medical emergencies on airplanes, studies show that in-flight medical emergencies are relatively uncommon and affect only a fraction of the estimated 3.6 billion passengers who fly each year. Chest pain and cardiovascular events are the most common reason planes are diverted for a medical emergency. Allergic reactions make up fewer than 4 percent of all in-flight medical emergencies, according to a 2013 study published in the Western Journal of Emergency Medicine.Notably, American Airlines, which operates one of the largest fleets of planes in the world, does not even serve peanuts. But it does have a peanut policy, in which it states: “Requests that we not serve any particular foods, including tree nuts, on our flights cannot be granted. We are not able to provide nut ‘buffer zones,’ nor are we able to allow passengers to pre-board to wipe down seats and tray tables.”“Ultimately we cannot guarantee customers will not be exposed to peanuts or other nuts during the flight, and allowing people with nut allergies to preboard can create a false sense of security and does not eliminate risk,” Mr. Miller said.Individuals who suffer from severe, life-threatening food allergies can experience swelling and difficulty breathing after even a mild exposure. They usually carry an Epi-Pen, which contains epinephrine, a medication that can reverse the symptoms. But in the case of a severe reaction, a person may still need urgent access to a medical facility.Research has shown that taking steps like creating buffer zones, in which nearby passengers are asked to refrain from eating nut products, and wiping down seats and trays may reduce the risk of an allergic reaction in flight.One of the complaints, filed on Dec. 28, is from Nicole Mackenzie, the mother of a 7-year-old with life-threatening allergies to peanuts, tree nuts and seeds. She was not allowed to preboard to clean the seat before the family’s trip last fall from Portland, Ore., to Charlotte, N.C. The second complaint was filed on Jan. 10 on behalf of Food Allergy Research & Education (FARE), an organization that represents individuals with all kinds of food allergies.“American Airlines’ action was clearly discriminatory,” said FARE’s chief executive officer and chief medical officer, Dr. James Baker Jr. “It has a defined policy that they put on their website, and the only people they single out from preboarding are people with food allergies.”Lianne Mandelbaum, whose son has allergies, tracks the experiences of travelers with allergies on her website, the No Nut Traveler. She said that each airline makes its own rules but that the policies are inconsistently enforced, so travelers often don’t know what to expect when they make travel plans.“It’s like playing Russian roulette,” said Michael Silverman, a psychologist in New York City whose 13-year-old daughter, Sydney, has a severe allergy, but who is reluctant to raise the subject for fear of being kicked off a plane.The Department of Transportation is investigating the complaints, officials said, adding in an email that severe allergies are considered a disability under the Air Carrier Access Act, which regulates air travel, if they impact one’s ability to breathe “or substantially impact another major life activity.” The nut industry has lobbied against restricting nut consumption on airplanes, and Congress has prohibited the Department of Transportation from imposing any restrictions.Some airlines are more accommodating to passengers with food allergies.  Jet Blue will create a nut-free “buffer zone” around an allergic passenger. Southwest will avoid serving peanuts if flight attendants know an allergic passenger is on board. Delta’s policy is also to refrain from serving peanuts if an allergic passenger is onboard.But interviews with nearly a dozen families and young adults with severe allergies suggest that many people worry about being removed from a flight if they ask whether nuts will be served.Ana Govorko, a hospital administrator from Princeton, N.J., said that in July she and her teenage daughter and adult son were ordered off a Lufthansa jet bound from New York for Munich and Trieste, Italy. She had informed the gate attendant that her daughter has severe allergies and she was carrying medication. The family waited in the airport for seven hours, trying to find another flight, while airline employees, “were joking about her allergies,” Ms. Govorko said. “They were very rude. It was shocking.”Ms. Govorko was able to get on another Lufthansa flight departing from Newark the next day. A Lufthansa spokeswoman, Christina Semmel, said that the Govorkos were allowed to fly after presenting a letter from her daughter’s physician, but Ms. Govorko says she had presented the letter when she tried to board the first flight.Laura Ilsley, a mother of two now living in Travis, Calif., had a similar experience last April, when she and her husband, who is in the military, were flying from Incirlik, Turkey, along with their son and 4-year-old daughter, who is severely allergic to peanuts.When Ms. Ilsley informed Air France of her daughter’s allergies, the airline’s agents said the crew planned to serve peanuts and would not alter their plans, and said the family was “not welcome on board,” Ms. Ilsley said. Eventually, an Air France manager was able to get the family on a Delta flight, where the crew made an announcement that a child with a severe allergy to peanuts was on board and that pretzels and cookies would be offered instead.“The staff was very kind and it went off without a hitch,” Ms. Ilsley said.In a statement, Air France said the flight crew had “determined it was not in the best interest of the passenger to board the flight on such short notice,” and that “the case was handled with concern for passenger safety as the top priority.”Dr. Silverman’s daughter, Sydney, said she actually had a very good experience when she flew on Delta from Palm Beach, Fla., back to New York City over the Martin Luther King weekend. A flight attendant noticed she was wiping down her seat and asked if she was allergic to peanuts. Sydney said that she was, but that it was O.K. to serve nuts.Nevertheless, the attendant “turned to the people in the row in front of me and in back of me and asked, ‘is it O.K. if I don’t serve you peanuts on the flight?’ And they all said yes,” Sydney said. “And then she went on the intercom and said they weren’t going to serve peanuts because someone on the flight has an allergy, and if people brought peanuts to please not eat them.“And it made me feel thankful,” she said. “No one’s ever done anything like that before.”
RICHLAND, Wash. — When Tim Snider arrived on Enewetak Atoll in the middle of the Pacific Ocean to clean up the fallout from dozens of nuclear tests on the ring of coral islands, Army officers immediately ordered him to put on a respirator and a bright yellow suit designed to guard against plutonium poisoning.A military film crew snapped photos and shot movies of Mr. Snider, a 20-year-old Air Force radiation technician, in the crisp new safety gear. Then he was ordered to give all the gear back. He spent the rest of his four-month stint on the islands wearing only cutoff shorts and a floppy sun hat.“I never saw one of those suits again,” Mr. Snider, now 58, said in an interview in his kitchen here as he thumbed a yellowing photo he still has from the 1979 shoot. “It was just propaganda.”Today Mr. Snider has tumors on his ribs, spine and skull — which he thinks resulted from his work on the crew, in the largest nuclear cleanup ever undertaken by the United States military.Roughly 4,000 troops helped clean up the atoll between 1977 and 1980. Like Mr. Snider, most did not even wear shirts, let alone respirators. Hundreds say they are now plagued by health problems, including brittle bones, cancer and birth defects in their children. Many are already dead. Others are too sick to work.The military says there is no connection between these illnesses and the cleanup. Radiation exposure during the work fell well below recommended thresholds, it says, and safety precautions were top notch. So the government refuses to pay for the veterans’ medical care.Congress long ago recognized that troops were harmed by radiation on Enewetak during the original atomic tests, which occurred in the 1950s, and should be cared for and compensated. Still, it has failed to do the same for the men who cleaned up the toxic debris 20 years later. The disconnect continues a longstanding pattern in which the government has shrugged off responsibility for its nuclear mistakes.On one cleanup after another, veterans have been denied care because shoddy or intentionally false radiation monitoring was later used as proof that there was no radiation exposure.A report by The New York Times last spring found that veterans were exposed to plutonium during the cleanup of a 1966 accident involving American hydrogen bombs in Palomares, Spain. Declassified documents and a recent study by the Air Force said the men might have been poisoned, and needed new testing.But in the months since the report, nothing has been done to help them.For two years, the Enewetak veterans have been trying, without success, to win medical benefits from Congress through a proposed Atomic Veterans Healthcare Parity Act. Some lawmakers hope to introduce a bill this year, but its fate is uncertain. Now, as new cases of cancer emerge nearly every month, many of the men wonder how much longer they can wait.The cleanup of Enewetak has long been portrayed as a triumph. During the operation, officials told reporters that they were setting a new standard in safety. One report from the end of the cleanup said safety was so strict that “it would be difficult to identify additional radsafe precautions that could have been taken.”Documents from the time and interviews with dozens of veterans tell a different story.Most of the documents were declassified and made publicly available in the 1990s, along with millions of pages of other files relating to nuclear testing, and sat unnoticed for years. They show that the government used troops instead of professional nuclear workers to save money. Then it saved even more money by skimping on safety precautions.Records show that protective equipment was missing or unusable. Troops requesting respirators couldn’t get them. Cut-rate safety monitoring systems failed. Officials assured concerned members of Congress by listing safeguards that didn’t exist.And though leaders of the cleanup told troops that the islands emitted no more radiation than a dental X-ray, documents show they privately worried about “plutonium problems” and areas that were “highly radiologically contaminated.”Tying any disease to radiation exposure years earlier is nearly impossible; there has never been a formal study of the health of the Enewetak cleanup crews. The military collected nasal swabs and urine samples during the cleanup to measure how much plutonium troops were absorbing, but in response to a Freedom of Information Act request, it said it could not find the records.Hundreds of the troops, though, almost all now in their late 50s, have found one another on Facebook and discovered remarkably similar problems involving deteriorating bones and an incidence of cancer that appears to be far above the norm.A tally of 431 of the veterans by a member of the group shows that of those who stayed on the southernmost island, where radiation was low, only 2 percent reported having cancer. Of those who worked on the most contaminated islands in the north, 20 percent reported cancer. An additional 34 percent from the contaminated islands reported other health problems that could be related to radiation, like failing bones, infertility and thyroid problems.Between 1948 and 1958, 43 atomic blasts rocked the tiny atoll — part of the Marshall Islands, which sit between Hawaii and the Philippines — obliterating the native groves of breadfruit trees and coconut palms, and leaving an apocalyptic wreckage of twisted test towers, radioactive bunkers and rusting military equipment.Four islands were entirely vaporized; only deep blue radioactive craters in the ocean remained. The residents had been evacuated. No one thought they would ever return.In the early 1970s, the Enewetak islanders threatened legal action if they didn’t get their home back. In 1972, the United States government agreed to return the atoll and vowed to clean it up first, a project shared by the Atomic Energy Commission, now called the Department of Energy, and the Department of Defense.The biggest problem, according to Energy Department reports, was Runit Island, a 75-acre spit of sand blitzed by 11 nuclear tests in 1958. The north end was gouged by a 300-foot-wide crater that documents from the time describe as “a special problem” because of “high subsurface contamination.”The island was littered with a fine dust of pulverized plutonium, which if inhaled or otherwise absorbed can cause cancer years or even decades later. A millionth of a gram is potentially harmful, and because the isotopes have a half-life of 24,000 years, the danger effectively never goes away.The military initially quarantined Runit. Government scientists agreed that other islands might be made habitable, but Runit would most likely forever be too toxic, memos show.So federal officials decided to collect radioactive debris from the other islands and dump it into the Runit crater, then cap it with a thick concrete dome.The government intended to use private contractors and estimated the cleanup would cost $40 million, documents show. But Congress balked at the price and approved only half the money. It ordered that “all reasonable economies should be realized” by using troops to do the work.Safety planners intended to use protective suits, respirators and sprinklers to keep down dust. But without adequate funding, simple precautions were scrapped.Paul Laird was one of the first service members to arrive for the atoll’s cleanup, in 1977. Then a 20-year-old bulldozer driver, he began scraping topsoil that records show contained plutonium. He was given no safety equipment.“That dust was like baby powder. We were covered in it,” said Mr. Laird, now 60, during an interview in rural Maine, where he owns a small auto repair shop. “But we couldn’t even get a paper dust mask. I begged for one daily. My lieutenant said the masks were on back order so use a T-shirt.”By the time Mr. Laird left the islands, he was throwing up and had a blisterlike rash. He got out of the Army in 1978 and moved home to Maine. When he turned 52, he found a lump that turned out to be kidney cancer. A scan at the hospital showed he also had bladder cancer. A few years later he developed a different form of bladder cancer.His private health insurance covered the treatment, but co-payments left him deep in debt. He applied repeatedly for free veterans’ health care for radiation but was denied. His medical records from the military all said he had not been exposed.“When the job was done, they threw my bulldozer in the ocean because it was so hot,” Mr. Laird said. “If it got that much radiation, how the hell did it miss me?”As the cleanup continued, federal officials tried to institute safety measures. A shipment of yellow radiation suits arrived on the islands in 1978, but in interviews veterans said that they were too hot to wear in the tropical sun and that the military told them that it was safe to go without them.The military tried to monitor plutonium inhalation using air samplers. But they soon broke. According to an Energy Department memo, in 1978, only a third of the samplers were working.All troops were issued a small film badge to measure radiation exposure, but government memos note that humid conditions destroyed the film. Failure rates often reached 100 percent.Every evening, Air Force technicians scanned workers for plutonium particles before they left Runit. Men said dozens of workers each day had screened positive for dangerous levels of radiation.“Sometimes we’d get readings that were all the way to the red,” said one technician, David Roach, 57, who now lives in Rockland, Me.None of the high readings were recorded, said Mr. Roach, who has since had several strokes.Two members of Congress wrote to the secretary of defense in 1978 with concerns, but his office told them not to worry: Suits and respirators ensured the cleanup was conducted in “a manner as to assure that radiation exposure to individuals is limited to the lowest levels practicable.”Even after the cleanup, many of the islands were still too radioactive to inhabit.In 1988, Congress passed a law providing automatic medical care to any troops involved in the original atomic testing. But the act covers veterans only up to 1958, when atomic testing stopped, excluding the Enewetak cleanup crews.If civilian contractors had done the cleanup and later discovered declassified documents that show the government failed to follow its own safety plan, they could sue for negligence. Veterans don’t have that right. A 1950 Supreme Court ruling bars troops and their families from suing for injuries arising from military service.The veterans’ only avenue for help is to apply individually to the Department of Veterans Affairs for free medical care and disability payments. But the department bases decisions on old military records — including defective air sampling and radiation badge data — that show no one was harmed. It nearly always denies coverage.“A lot of guys can’t survive anymore, financially,” said Jeff Dean, 60, who piloted boats loaded with contaminated soil.Mr. Dean developed cancer at 43, then again two years later. He had to give up his job as a carpenter as the bones in his spine deteriorated. Unpaid medical bills left him $100,000 in debt.“No one seems to want to admit anything,” Mr. Dean said. “I don’t know how much longer we can wait, we have guys dying all the time.”
WASHINGTON — The Trump administration defended on Sunday a reorganization of the National Security Council that elevates the president’s chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon — a political adviser with no direct national security role — to full membership and downgrades the director of national intelligence and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.The alteration was contained in a memorandum issued late Saturday defining the organization of the National Security Council and the Homeland Security Council, the top decision-making bodies inside the White House on everything from diplomacy to counterterrorism to crisis management to nuclear and cyberpolicy.Mr. Trump’s document drew from organizational precedents in the Obama and George W. Bush administrations. But the ascension of Mr. Bannon, who until last year was the head of Breitbart News, and the diminishment of the president’s top intelligence and military advisers took Democrats and Republicans by surprise.The new memo said that the intelligence director and the Joint Chiefs chairman would attend the “principals meetings” — the meeting of cabinet-level officials — only when “issues pertaining to their responsibilities and expertise are to be discussed.”Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, said Sunday that Mr. Bannon’s past service as a Navy officer merited his attendance at all meetings, as part of a “streamlining” of decision-making. He did not explain the downgrading of the four-star general who heads the Joint Chiefs, Joseph F. Dunford Jr., who rose through the Marine Corps and served in Iraq and Afghanistan.“Well, he is a former naval officer,” Mr. Spicer said of Mr. Bannon on ABC’s “This Week.” “He’s got a tremendous understanding of the world and the geopolitical landscape that we have now.”He added, “Having the chief strategist for the president in those meetings, who has a significant military background, to help make, guide what the president’s final analysis is going to be, is crucial.”When pressed on General Dunford’s role, Mr. Spicer said, “The president gets plenty of information from the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.”Current and former military officials said they suspected that the decision, in part, was prompted by the national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, who retired as a three-star general after he was dismissed during the Obama administration as the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency. It was the previous director of national intelligence, James R. Clapper, who delivered the news to Mr. Flynn that he was being removed from his post.Throughout the transition, Mr. Flynn was reportedly hesitant to place many people around the National Security Council table who had outranked him in the military. Nonetheless, there are two in the cabinet: Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, who retired as a four-star general, and the secretary of homeland security, John F. Kelly, a retired four-star Marine Corps general who served for 45 years, ending his military career as the commander of United States Southern Command.Both men remain principals on the council.The C.I.A. director, Mike Pompeo, is not mentioned at all in the reorganization order. A week ago, Mr. Trump went to C.I.A. headquarters to assure officers there that he had their backs and valued their contributions. But Mr. Pompeo’s predecessor, John O. Brennan, was also not a formal member of the council, though he often attended meetings to provide intelligence assessments.Susan E. Rice, Mr. Flynn’s predecessor as national security adviser, denounced the downgrading of the intelligence director and the Joint Chiefs chairman. “This is stone cold crazy,” she wrote on Twitter. “Who needs military advice or intell to make policy on ISIL, Syria, Afghanistan, DPRK,” she said, using abbreviations for the Islamic State and North Korea.Former Defense Secretary Robert Gates, also appearing on ABC, questioned the wisdom of the move.John Bellinger, who was the counsel to the National Security Council during Mr. Bush’s administration, noted in a commentary on the Lawfare blog that Mr. Bannon’s role was highly unusual, because “the N.S.C. function usually does not include participants from the political side of the White House.” He noted that Karl Rove, Mr. Bush’s top political strategist, did not attend council meetings.But in the early days of the Obama administration, David Axelrod, also a top political strategist, did attend many meetings resetting policy on Afghanistan and Pakistan — as a guest and an observer, but not as a full member of the council.
WASHINGTON — The Trump administration is delaying its plans to issue two executive orders that would reduce funding to the United Nations and begin a process to review and potentially cancel certain multilateral treaties, according to current and former officials briefed on the matter.Both draft orders were submitted to the National Security Council for approval, but the council’s advisers were granted less than an hour and a half to review them, though this process normally takes weeks. Federal agencies were granted similarly brief windows for review.Federal officials that were asked to review the documents balked at their contents, warning they required legal vetting.The draft orders are now being withheld for a more complete review by a number of agencies, including the State Department, which is expected to begin as early as next week.The draft order on the United Nations funding, according to copies acquired by The New York Times, called for “at least a 40 percent overall decrease” in contributions by the United States to the world body and its agencies. Much of this funding currently goes to international peacekeeping operations and other core United Nations missions. The draft order would have allowed for similar cuts to other international organizations, but it did not name them.Some provisions in the draft order were either unclear or redundant. For example, one suggested considering cuts in funding toward the International Criminal Court, but the United States does not recognize that body or make contributions to it. Another called for the termination of funding for any United Nations agency that grants full membership to a Palestinian representative, which is already United States law.Nikki R. Haley, the new American ambassador to the United Nations, said in comments at the United Nations headquarters on Friday, “You’re going to see a change in the way we do business.”Ms. Haley added, “For those who don’t have our backs, we’re taking names.”President Trump expressed antipathy toward the United Nations during the campaign.A second draft order called for establishing a process to review whether some multilateral treaties should be annulled, including current and pending treaties. The order’s text excluded treaties “directly related” to extradition, trade or national security, though it is unclear which treaties would have qualified.Experts said that permission for the reviews of treaties related to the environment — such as the Paris climate agreement — or to human rights also appeared to be intended in the draft order.
WASHINGTON — A secretive Chinese company with deep ties to the country’s Communist Party has become one of the biggest foreign investors in the United States over the past year, snapping up American firms in a string of multibillion-dollar deals. But it is one of its smaller deals that is apparently stalling the White House career of a top adviser to President Trump.Anthony Scaramucci, a flamboyant former campaign fund-raiser for Mr. Trump whom the president has appointed as the White House liaison to the business community, has been in limbo for more than a week since he agreed to sell his investment firm to a subsidiary of the Chinese conglomerate, HNA Group.Mr. Scaramucci is on the job but has yet to be sworn in, partly because of concerns about the Jan. 17 deal, according to two administration officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they are not authorized to publicly discuss personnel matters.It is the second time a politically connected Chinese company has chased a business deal with an incoming White House official. And it is evidence of the unusual confluence of interests between superrich members of the new Trump administration who need to unwind complex financial portfolios to comply with government rules and international firms eager to buy American assets.“You are not going to get an administration with thousands of political appointees and not have people who have contacts with the Chinese,” said Derek Scissors, a China specialist at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative-leaning research organization in Washington.Still, he said, no one should have any illusions about the Chinese motivation behind such deals. “HNA is looking for influence in an administration that looks like it is positioning itself to be anti-China,” he said. “They all are.”Previous administrations have rarely faced such issues, partly because the surge of Chinese investment in the United States is relatively recent. Chinese companies are on a buying spree, investing about $50 billion in American companies and projects last year alone. HNA Group, a conglomerate focused heavily on aviation, burst onto the American business scene last year when it bought a quarter of the hotelier Hilton Worldwide Holdings for $6.5 billion, and paid  $6 billion for the information technology giant Ingram Micro.Last year, Anbang Insurance Group, a Chinese financial colossus, began negotiating an investment in a Manhattan office tower owned by the family business of Mr. Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner. Mr. Kushner, 36, is now one of the president’s most influential advisers, with a White House portfolio that is expected to include handling America’s relationship with China. Mr. Trump has taken a hawkish stance toward China, threatening to raise tariffs on Chinese imports, and demanding that China abandon the artificial islands it has built in the South China Sea in an attempt to bolster its claim to the vast area.Compared to Mr. Kushner, who still has some ties to his family’s real estate empire, Mr. Scaramucci appears to be making a clean break from his business, SkyBridge Capital. Although the sale price could rise as high as $230 million, depending on the company’s future performance, Mr. Scaramucci’s payment is fixed, he said in an interview on Monday.HNA is a newcomer to the asset management field in the United States, and companies like SkyBridge — so-called funds of funds that act essentially as middlemen investing clients’ money in hedge funds — have experienced pain in recent years. Citing high fees and disappointing performance, investors have withdrawn billions from such firms. SkyBridge’s asset pool has shrunk by more than $2 billion since mid-2015, and its flagship fund posted its second straight year of negative returns in 2016.While Mr. Kushner’s negotiations with Anbang apparently raised few eyebrows in Mr. Trump’s inner circle, some White House officials appear to view Mr. Scaramucci’s sale of his firm to HNA with more suspicion. Mr. Scaramucci was left out of the group of about two dozen White House aides who were sworn in on Jan. 22.One White House official cited concerns that it could take as long as three months for the SkyBridge deal to close and be approved by the ethics office. Mr. Scaramucci’s lawyer said this period of time was standard for any large, complex deal.A White House spokesman did not comment on Mr. Scaramucci’s status.Allies of Mr. Scaramucci’s said the sale of his company was a red herring, and attributed the delay in his swearing-in to objections from Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, who they said had not favored giving Mr. Scaramucci a White House position. Mr. Priebus’s allies denied that.In an interview, Mr. Scaramucci rejected any notion that HNA was seeking a friend in the administration, saying that his company was a highly attractive investment and that HNA was a logical buyer. HNA has described the purchase as an important toehold in the American market for its growing asset management businesses.Even if HNA was hoping for influence, Mr. Scaramucci said, he has walled himself off from any discussions with the Chinese company. David Boies, his lawyer, said Mr. Scaramucci went well beyond what was required to rule out any perception of a conflict of interest.“They know they cannot talk to me, so what influence are they buying?” Mr. Scaramucci said in the interview. “If people are saying that HNA is trying to buy access, then people are saying HNA is stupid.”“I took their bid because it would protect my clients, partners and investors,” he said. “So what did I do wrong?”An irrepressible self-described “diva” nicknamed “the Mooch,” Mr. Scaramucci, 53, is as outspoken as HNA’s owners are tight-lipped. His support for Mr. Trump in the Republican primaries came late, and only after he initially attacked Mr. Trump as a “hack politician” with “a big mouth.” He first backed Scott Walker, the governor of Wisconsin, and then Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor.Still, he was one of the first Wall Street financiers to sign up with Mr. Trump’s campaign, and has been a relentless cheerleader for him since May, using the blunt, colorful speech that made him a frequent news show guest. At a national business conference sponsored by SkyBridge in May, Mr. Scaramucci said that Mr. Trump was only “saying cuckoo-la-la things” because he knows that “the red-meat-eating Middle American loves the swipes at the know-it-alls.”Analysts of Chinese politics and strategy say the ties between administration officials and companies like Anbang and HNA bear careful watching, because while such firms are ostensibly privately owned, their very survival depends on the good will of the Chinese government.“They will do, and they have time and time again done, many, many things at the behest of the Chinese government,” said Victor Shih, a professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego who specializes in the nexus between business and politics in China.And few private companies have as obvious ties to the Chinese government as HNA, whose connections rival even those of Anbang, whose chairman married the granddaughter of Deng Xiaoping, China’s former paramount leader.Faxes and emails sent to HNA press offices in Beijing and in Hainan were not responded to, and phone calls were not answered. A company spokesman in the United States declined to comment for the record.Chen Feng, the firm’s chairman and founder, has the Chinese political titles that are the equivalent of a peerage or knighthood. He has been a delegate since 2002 to the high-level Communist Party conclaves held every five years that pick the country’s leadership, a streak almost no other private company executive can match.While HNA’s ownership structure is murky, it has paired with a company run by the son of a former member of the party’s top ruling body, the Politburo Standing Committee. In 2008, HNA formed a venture in the northern city Tianjin with Womei Investment Management, part of a group of firms led by a son of He Guoqiang, then the Communist Party’s powerful discipline chief, Chinese corporate records show.With more than $90 billion in assets, HNA has been showered with cheap loans that have helped fuel its overseas purchases. The amounts are extraordinary for a private company.HNA Group’s biggest lenders are two government policy banks, followed by a gaggle of state-owned commercial banks that as of the end of 2015 gave HNA a combined $67.4 billion line of credit, according to a bond prospectus.One major shareholder, Guan Jun, who records show may indirectly own more than a quarter of the company, lists his address in a rundown apartment block in Beijing. In the filthy hallway outside his door, a decaying bed lies upright, a bag of trash suspended from its frame.Some in Mr. Trump’s inner circle argued that Mr. Scaramucci’s skills as a salesman made him the perfect fit to head the White House Office of Public Liaison. Mr. Scaramucci said he was so eager to serve his government that he took the job for $1 a year and gave up a “phenomenal” company.Mr. Scaramucci, who had a controlling interest in the firm, said three other entities bid for SkyBridge besides HNA, including one that offered him more money but would have laid off 40 employees. HNA, which teamed up with a second firm to buy the company, will become its majority owner.Whether selling his firm to join the White House will prove a wise move still seems uncertain. “Why are people so stupid to blow up their lives to serve the country they love?” Mr. Scaramucci said in the interview on Monday.“Maybe that is the story you should be writing.”
■ President Trump would not say whether he favors lifting sanctions imposed on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine and meddling in the election, as his British counterpart rejected such a move.■ Battle lines are forming within the Republican Party ahead of Mr. Trump’s phone call Saturday with Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin.■ The commander in chief said his defense secretary will “override” his views in favor of torture.President Trump said on Friday that it was “very early” to be talking about lifting sanctions on Russia, deflecting a question about whether he would raise the issue with Russian President Vladimir V. Putin on Saturday morning even as his British counterpart flatly rejected such a move.Speaking to reporters after a meeting with Theresa May, the British prime minister, Mr. Trump did not say whether he supports keeping sanctions that were put in place following Russia’s military involvement in Ukraine and its interference in the 2016 election. But he said he hoped to have a good relationship with Mr. Putin.“If we could have a great relationship with Russia and with China and with all countries, I’m all for that,” Mr. Trump said in a brief answer to the question.Ms. May was more direct in her answer to the question about sanctions on Russia. She said the United Kingdom “believes that the sanctions should continue.”The answers highlight what could be one of the differences between the two leaders, even as both of them insisted Friday that they plan to continue the close working relationship that has long existed between the two nations.President Trump’s phone call scheduled on Saturday with Russia’s president — their first conversation since Mr. Trump took office — has Republicans on edge. As one of his last acts as president, Barack Obama imposed sanctions on Russia for interfering in the election to help install Mr. Trump in the Oval Office.Senator John McCain of Arizona, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, warned Mr. Trump on Friday against lifting the sanctions.What came next was a list of Russian abuses: its invasion of Ukraine, its annexation of Crimea and its support of “the murderous Assad regime as it has waged war on the Syrian people and killed more than 400,000 civilians.”Then came this: “And in the most flagrant demonstration of Putin’s disdain and disrespect for our nation, Russia deliberately interfered in our recent election with cyberattacks and a disinformation campaign designed to weaken America and discredit Western values.”UPDATE: Another Republican senator, Rob Portman of Ohio, joins in:President Trump said Friday that he will let his secretary of defense “override” him by banning torture even though he believes the tactics do work in getting information out of terror suspects.In a remarkable show of deference to his own subordinate, Mr. Trump noted that Jim Mattis, the Pentagon chief, does not believe torture is effective. The president, who serves as the commander in chief and usually makes the final call on military action, said he will let Mr. Mattis decide.“I don’t necessarily agree, but I will tell you that he will override because I’m giving him that power,” Mr. Trump said. “I’m going to rely on him. I happen to feel that it does work.”Mr. Trump appeared to be struggling about the issue even as he spoke, returning several times to his own belief in torture’s effectiveness even as he stated several times that he would let Mr. Mattis would decide.“But I’m going with our leaders,” he said. “We are going to win, with or without.”Then he added: “But I do disagree.”President Trump spoke by phone on Friday with Enrique Peña Nieto, the president of Mexico, White House officials said, less than 24 hours after the Mexican president canceled a White House meeting over anger about Mr. Trump’s intentions to build a border wall.A senior White House official confirmed Friday that the call had taken place and said that an official description of what the two leaders said will be released soon.In the wake of the deepening diplomatic tensions on Thurdsday, aides to Mr. Trump had said they still intended to keep lines of communications between the two governments open. The call suggests that the two leaders may be attempting to reschedule the planned meeting.That could begin to repair the relationship in the short term, though differences will likely remain about construction of the border wall and who will finance it.Then again, Mr. Trump tweeted another salvo on Friday morning.Mr. Mattis on Friday ordered the review of the controversial F-35 fighter jet program, which has been criticized by President Trump for its cost overruns.Mr. Mattis also ordered that plans for a new Air Force One — which has also come under fire from Mr. Trump —should be reviewed, “with the specific objective of identifying means to substantially reduce the programs costs while delivering needed capabilities.”The F-35 review, Mr. Mattis said in a memo, will also look at how to reduce costs while still meeting requirements set out for the fighter jet program.During his confirmation hearings earlier this month, Mr. Mattis defended tweets from Mr. Trump criticizing the F-35 program. Mr. Mattis said at the time that Mr. Trump had “in no way shown a lack of support for the program. He just wants more bang for the buck.”The cost of building the next-generation fighter jet, the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, has been an issue at the Pentagon for several years. At an estimated $400 billion over 15 years for 2,443 planes, the fighter jet is the military largest weapons project.Mr. Trump is just not going to give up his claim that 3 million to 5 million illegal immigrants voted for Hillary Clinton, but he’s grasping for evidence.On Friday morning, he looked to VoteStand, which calls itself “America’s first online fraud reporting app” for the smartphone but does not appear to actually exist beyond the Twitter account of its founder, Gregg Phillips.The president seemed to be responding to an interview with Mr. Phillips on CNN Friday morning that was, shall we say, inconclusive. Mr. Phillips at once said 3 million illegal immigrants voted and said he is still working to prove that.“You can reach a conclusion and still verify it,” he maintained.Mr. Phillips began pressing his case that 3 million illegal votes were cast shortly after Election Day in November, but pressed repeatedly, Mr. Phillips has never produced any evidence. As the debunking site Snopes.com wrote:Mr. Phillips has been adamant on Twitter of course.But as PolitiFact wrote, “There is no report.”And that is not all Mr. Phillips has asserted.He now has an endorsement from the president of the United States.Mr. Trump’s fallacious argument that he lost the popular vote by nearly 3 million because of illegal immigrant ballots started as the stuff of wonderment and ridicule.Now that the Trump administration has shifted to an investigation of the voter rolls, things have gotten serious.Democrats appear to be girding for battle, but if, as is likely, Senator Jeff Sessions, a conservative from Alabama, becomes the attorney general, it does not appear to be a fight that the minority can win. The Democrats fear the hunt for illegal voters will become a pretext to tighten voting requirements nationwide and bar many minority voters who tend to side with the Democrats.Even moderate Democrats are alarmed.Word from Politico is that President Trump will not be attending the fancy, tuxedo-only Alfalfa Club dinner Saturday night, a chummy gathering with many of Washington’s politicians, journalists and every president since Ronald Reagan.Lest we get too excited — could the White House Correspondents Association dinner be next? Please? — we should wait and see. It is true that every president since Mr. Reagan has attended the annual roast and silly cabaret dinner of the Alfalfa Club, a century-old, invitation-only Washington clique that seems like it was hatched from a bygone era. But not many of those presidents have attended each year.Mr. Trump may yet keep the soiree alive.Mr. Trump traveled to the City of Brotherly Love on Thursday to decry Philadelphia’s rising murder rate — “I mean, just terribly increasing.”But it isn’t.Last year’s 277 homicides was down from 280 in 2015. That is up from 2014, when 248 were murdered, and in 2013, when 246 were killed. But recent years are markedly down from 2007 to 2012 when Philadelphia had more than 300 killings, 391 in 2007 alone.“President Trump’s false statements today were an insult to the men and women of the Philadelphia police force — the very same men and women who are working long hours today to ensure his safety,” Mayor Jim Kenney said in a statement Thursday.Of course, in the era of alternative facts, Mayor Kenney may be spitting in the wind.The Trump administration’s decision to drop advertisements encouraging people to sign up for health insurance under the Affordable Care Act was greeted with anger and alarm by supporters of the law — and a recognition that Mr. Trump wants the law crippled.“This is sabotage, pure and simple,” fumed Leslie Dach, a senior official in President Barack Obama’s Department of Health and Human Services who now heads a coalition to save the law. “This proves that this administration doesn’t care about people who need health coverage. And it clearly shows that they now own the consequences of their efforts to undermine the health care system.”The ads were to have run only for a few more days, until the annual open enrollment period ends on Tuesday. In the last few years, large numbers of consumers signed up just before the deadline.But Mr. Trump and Republicans in Congress are determined to repeal Mr. Obama’s signature domestic achievement.Since Nov. 1, more than 11.5 million people have signed up for insurance or had their coverage automatically renewed. And when the enrollment period ends, it’s anyone’s guess who will announce the total number of people who would lose their insurance if the law is repealed.The leading candidate to be the Pentagon’s new spokesman is John Ullyot, a former Marine Corps intelligence officer and veteran of Capitol Hill.Mr. Ullyot served as spokesman and deputy chief of staff for two Republican senators, John W. Warner of Virginia and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, and as spokesman for the Senate Armed Services Committee from 2003 to 2007.
WASHINGTON — Senate Republicans used the muscle of their majority on Wednesday to push some of President Trump’s most controversial cabinet nominees forward, using arcane procedural maneuvers and party-line votes to overcome what they called stall tactics by Democrats.The moves show the fierceness of the resistance to Mr. Trump among Democrats in Congress — but also the difficulty they will face going forward in trying to slow the Republican legislative agenda.For the second time this week, Democrats on the Senate Finance Committee boycotted a hearing on the nominations of Representative Tom Price and Steven T. Mnuchin, Mr. Trump’s picks to lead Department of Health and Human Services and the Treasury.But Republicans on the committee broke with the practice that a member of the minority party be present and held a vote Wednesday without their Democratic colleagues. They voted unanimously to move the nominations forward.“At every turn, my colleagues’ arguments change, but their answer is always the same: delay,” Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, chairman of the Finance Committee, said before the vote. “Long story short, we took some unprecedented actions today due to the unprecedented obstruction on the part of our colleagues.”Democrats on the committee say new information that emerged over the weekend suggests that Mr. Price and Mr. Mnuchin may not have been truthful in their confirmation hearing testimony, and they say need more questions answered. Now that the Republicans have voted without them, they are left with few options.“What we’re going to do, and it may sound like a quaint idea, is to follow up,” Senator Ron Wyden, the ranking Democrat on the committee, said. “We’re going to keep pushing to get the facts.”Republicans also took a step toward the confirmation of Senator Jeff Sessions, Mr. Trump’s choice for attorney general. A divided Senate Judiciary Committee approved his nomination on Wednesday, despite fierce pushback from Democrats prompted by the president’s dramatic firing of the Justice Department’s acting chief in a clash over the administration’s refugee policy.The committee approved Mr. Sessions on a straight party-line vote, with 11 Republicans supporting their former colleague from Alabama and nine Democrats opposing him. The Republican-controlled Senate now appears ready to approve his nomination next week, which would give the Justice Department and its 113,000 employees a full-time leader after a tumultuous few days that called its independence into question.The judiciary committee vote came two days after Mr. Trump ousted the acting attorney general, Sally Q. Yates, a holdover from the Obama administration, over her refusal to defend the president’s order on refugees against legal challenges. Ms. Yates said the order’s legality was unclear; the White House accused her of having “betrayed” her department.Democrats zeroed in on the firing and said that Mr. Sessions, an early supporter of Mr. Trump’s long-shot campaign who went on to become an influential adviser, would not have the independence to challenge the White House on questions of the law and policy. At his confirmation hearing last month, Mr. Sessions pledged repeatedly that he would be able to “say no” to Mr. Trump if needed and would not be “a mere rubber stamp” on issues like immigration and national security.Despite the progress with the Sessions nomination, delays remain on other fronts. Republicans are still grappling with Democrats over Scott Pruitt, Mr. Trump’s choice to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, and Representative Mick Mulvaney, his pick for White House budget director.On Wednesday, Democrats boycotted Mr. Pruitt’s scheduled confirmation vote by the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, saying he had failed to adequately answer their questions and address concerns about how he would run the agency charged with protecting the nation’s air, water and health.Senator John Barasso of Wyoming, the Republican chairman of the committee, dismissed the boycott as a stunt. Looking at the Democrats’ empty seats, he said that it was “a disappointing turn of events,” and that his colleagues were engaging in “political theater.”“I hope this is not the new normal,” he said. “We cannot afford for the E.P.A. to go without an administrator for the foreseeable future.”The White House’s Office of Management and Budget will also be without a leader for a while longer as Democrats on the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee managed to slow down a vote on Mr. Mulvaney over a delay in receiving his F.B.I. background check.Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, said that while the full report was available on Tuesday, she had not had an opportunity to read it before the Wednesday hearing. She insisted that the committee convene again for a vote.While Republicans have used similar delay tactics when they were not in power, many are arguing that Democrats should move on and let Mr. Trump assemble his government.“I understand they’re upset, I understand they are in a state of shock,” Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican from South Carolina, said of his Democratic colleagues. “To do some of this sort of childish stuff is going to make their comeback harder. If they can have a comeback.”
WASHINGTON — President Trump spoke by telephone with the acting director of the National Park Service the day after his inauguration to ask why someone from the agency had shared someone else’s Twitter post giving an unflattering comparison of his inaugural crowd, according to Mr. Trump’s deputy press secretary.“It was a, ‘What’s going on?’ type of thing,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House spokeswoman, said on Thursday evening. “Why is the National Park Service tweeting out comparison photos? That was the bigger issue there.”During the call, Mr. Trump also asked the National Park Service’s acting director, Michael T. Reynolds, if he could produce further photographic evidence of the size of his inaugural crowd, according to a second person briefed on the Jan. 21 telephone call between the two men.Since becoming president, Mr. Trump has repeatedly expressed outrage toward the news media for what he believes is a deliberate attempt to undermine his legitimacy by understating the size of the crowd that attended his swearing-in and speech.One of those instances happened on Inauguration Day, when an employee of the National Park Service used the agency’s Twitter account to share someone else’s post of images comparing the inaugural crowds in 2009 and 2017. The images, originally posted by a New York Times reporter, showed the 2009 crowd to be much larger.Mr. Trump’s press secretary, Sean Spicer, expressed outrage the next day during a forceful statement at the White House in which he lashed out at the press and claimed, inaccurately, that Mr. Trump had drawn “the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration.” Mr. Spicer later said he was talking about a combination of in-person, television and online audiences.That same morning, before Mr. Spicer’s statement, Mr. Reynolds received a message from the White House that the president wanted to talk to him.They connected in the early afternoon, according to one of the people who was briefed on the call and asked for anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss it. The new president asked for additional photos that could confirm his view of his crowd size.A park service spokesman, Tom Crosson, said he could confirm that a call took place between Mr. Reynolds and the president, but he would not describe the content. The call was first reported by The Washington Post.Mr. Reynolds could not be reached for comment.The fact that Mr. Trump sought out Mr. Reynolds to discuss the Twitter message and seek more proof of the size of his crowd during his first full day as president is further evidence of the anxiety that he has demonstrated when people raise questions about the extent of his public support.As a candidate, he frequently commented on the size of his rallies, and when he became president-elect, he repeatedly spoke about the magnitude of his Election Day victories in states that few people thought he would win.Some political commentators had speculated that Mr. Trump’s focus on the magnitude of his support would fade once he took office, as the election became less important than the issues facing him.But his frustration about the size of the inaugural crowd is continuing. During an interview with David Muir of ABC News this week, he talked about it, saying: “We had a massive crowd of people. We had a crowd — I looked over that sea of people and I said to myself, ‘Wow.’ And I’ve seen crowds before. Big, big crowds. That was some crowd.”He also walked Mr. Muir over to a panoramic picture of the crowd hanging in a hallway in the West Wing.Ms. Sanders said Mr. Trump’s decision to call Mr. Reynolds is a reflection of what his supporters find appealing: his willingness to do something himself when he thinks it needs to be done.“The reason that people like him is because he takes action himself,” she said. “If he sees something that’s an issue, he picks up the phone and directly engages to fix it.”
JERUSALEM — President Trump has invoked Israel’s “wall” as a model for the barrier he has vowed to build along the United States’ border with Mexico. His wall, he says, will keep out illegal immigrants who bring drugs and crime into America.“A wall protects,” Mr. Trump told  Sean Hannity of Fox News on Thursday. “All you have to do is ask Israel. They were having a total disaster coming across and they had a wall. It’s 99.9 percent stoppage.”It is not immediately clear which “wall” Mr. Trump was referring to. Israel has built fences along its borders with Egypt; along its northern border with Lebanon; and along its boundary with the Gaza Strip.But Israel’s best-known barrier is the one built along and inside the West Bank after a surge of terrorist attacks. It was intended to regulate Palestinian movement into Israel.That barrier — a system of fences and some sections of concrete wall — was constructed under very different circumstances, and with different goals, than Mr. Trump’s wall, raising questions about whether the president’s analogy between the United States and Israel is sound.Israel began constructing this system of fences and concrete walls in 2002, at the height of the second Palestinian uprising when suicide bombers were detonating themselves in cafes and buses in Israeli cities.Ariel Sharon, then Israel’s prime minister, was reluctant to put down any marker that could be interpreted as a future border between Israel and the territories it won in the 1967 war, but which are claimed by the Palestinians for an independent state. After the particularly bloody month of March 2002, in which 130 Israelis were killed, the Israeli military re-entered the major Palestinian cities of the West Bank, which it had evacuated under the peace accords of the 1990s. At the same time, Mr. Sharon gave in to mounting popular pressure and experts, who viewed a barrier as a security imperative.As planning of the route got underway, however, it became increasingly political. Israel made great efforts to loop the barrier around settlements and strategic areas of the West Bank that it wished to keep on its side under any future peace deal. Most of the barrier ended up east of the pre-1967 line, inside West Bank territory, prompting international criticism and creating humanitarian problems for thousands of Palestinians trapped in enclaves between the barrier and Israel proper.Some areas proved so problematic, legally or politically, that after years of construction, the barrier was never entirely completed.The International Court of Justice issued an advisory opinion in 2004 stating that Israel’s building of a barrier inside the occupied territory was illegal.To emphasize the stated security purpose of the barrier, some Israeli officials refer to it as an “antiterror obstacle.” Palestinians routinely refer to it as a “racist separation” or “apartheid” wall.Since March 2002, there has been a sharp decline in the number and scope of terrorist attacks by West Bank Palestinians in Israel. Security officials say that the barrier has undoubtedly helped, but that there are several other important factors.As the second Palestinian intifada, or uprising, waned around 2004, Hamas, the militant group that now controls Gaza, put a moratorium on suicide bombings. Furthermore, the Israeli military still operates on the other side of the West Bank barrier, carrying out nightly raids in Palestinian towns, villages and refugee camps to arrest people suspected of being militants. Israel also benefits from continuing security cooperation with the Western-backed Palestinian Authority, which has an interest in suppressing Hamas and other militants in the West Bank and preventing attacks against Israel.The barrier was never meant to stop all Palestinian movement into Israel. Palestinian laborers apply for permits and more than 50,000 people legally cross daily through a series of checkpoints that puncture the winding 400-mile route of the barrier.But the system has proved far from hermitic. Depending on the season, up to 60,000 Palestinians without work permits sneak across the barrier to work in construction, agriculture or service industries in Israel, either through gaps in the route or by utilizing the services of local smugglers. And occasionally, the system is defeated by Palestinians who carry out terrorist attacks.Israel has been lax in clamping down on illegal workers, usually just sending them back if they are caught. Unemployment in the Palestinian territories is high and wages are low relative to earnings in Israel, and the Israeli military argues that the economic well-being of Palestinians contributes to stability and security. In Israel, the illegal workers are generally accepted as part of the economy. Few Palestinians are looking to immigrate, since home is typically no more than a few hours’ drive away.Israel recently built a fence along its border with the Egyptian-controlled Sinai to stanch the flow of Africans seeking asylum and work in Israel, and to guard against the threat of infiltrations by jihadist militants, affiliated with the Islamic State, operating in the desert peninsula.About 60,000 Africans, mainly from Sudan and Eritrea, surreptitiously crossed from Egypt into Israel from 2005 to 2012. The fence has proved effective. After about 200 asylum seekers were smuggled from Egypt in 2015, some sections of the fence were made higher. In 2016, only about a dozen were reported to have crossed.Israel also built a security fence along its border with the Gaza Strip, the Palestinian coastal territory from which Israel withdrew all its forces and settlers in 2005. Some Palestinians manage to cross it, often looking for work in Israel, but the border is intensively monitored and patrolled by the Israeli military, and many of them are caught.The fence has hardly solved Israel’s problems with Gaza. Hamas has developed rockets and tunnels to bypass the barrier, and Israel has fought three wars there in the past decade.
WASHINGTON — President Trump fired his acting attorney general on Monday night, removing her as the nation’s top law enforcement officer after she defiantly refused to defend his executive order closing the nation’s borders to refugees and people from predominantly Muslim countries.In an escalating crisis for his 10-day-old administration, the president declared in a statement that Sally Q. Yates, who had served as deputy attorney general under President Barack Obama, had betrayed the administration by announcing that Justice Department lawyers would not defend Mr. Trump’s order against legal challenges.The president replaced Ms. Yates with Dana J. Boente, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, saying that he would serve as attorney general until Congress acts to confirm Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama. In his first act in his new role, Mr. Boente announced that he was rescinding Ms. Yates’s order.Monday’s events have transformed the confirmation of Mr. Sessions into a referendum on Mr. Trump’s immigration order. Action in the Senate could come as early as Tuesday.Ms. Yates’s order was a remarkable rebuke by a government official to a sitting president, and it recalled the so-called Saturday Night Massacre in 1973, when President Richard M. Nixon fired his attorney general and deputy attorney general for refusing to dismiss the special prosecutor in the Watergate case.Mr. Boente was sworn in at 9 p.m., according to White House officials, who did not provide details about who performed the ceremony. In a statement, Mr. Boente pledged to “defend and enforce the laws of our country.”At 9:15 p.m., Ms. Yates received a hand-delivered letter at the Justice Department that informed her that she was fired. Signed by John DeStefano, one of Mr. Trump’s White House aides, the letter informed Ms. Yates that “the president has removed you from the office of Deputy Attorney General of the United States.”Two minutes later, the White House officials lashed out at Ms. Yates in a statement issued by Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary.“Ms. Yates is an Obama administration appointee who is weak on borders and very weak on illegal immigration,” the statement said.The firing of Ms. Yates came at the end of a turbulent three days that began on Friday with Mr. Trump’s signing of his executive order. The action stranded travelers around the world, led to protests around the country and created alarm inside the bureaucracy.Ms. Yates, like other senior government officials, was caught by surprise by the executive order and agonized over the weekend about how to respond, two Justice Department officials involved in the weekend deliberations said. Ms. Yates considered resigning but she told colleagues she did not want to leave it to her successor to face the same dilemma.By Monday afternoon, Ms. Yates added to a deepening sense of anxiety in the nation’s capital by publicly confronting the president with a stinging challenge to his authority, laying bare a deep divide at the Justice Department, within the diplomatic corps and elsewhere in the government over the wisdom of his order.“At present, I am not convinced that the defense of the executive order is consistent with these responsibilities, nor am I convinced that the executive order is lawful,” Ms. Yates wrote in a letter to Justice Department lawyers.Mr. Trump’s senior aides huddled together in the West Wing to determine what to do.They decided quickly that her insubordination could not stand, according to an administration official familiar with the deliberations. Among the chief concerns was whether Mr. Sessions could be confirmed quickly by the Senate.After Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, received reassurances from Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, that the confirmation was on track, aides took their recommendation to Mr. Trump in the White House residence.The president decided quickly: She has to go, he told them.The official statement from Mr. Spicer accused Ms. Yates of failing to fulfill her duty to defend a “legal order designed to protect the citizens of the United States” that had been approved by the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel.“It is time to get serious about protecting our country,” Mr. Spicer said in the statement. He accused Democrats of holding up the confirmation of Mr. Sessions for political reasons. “Calling for tougher vetting for individuals traveling from seven dangerous places is not extreme. It is reasonable and necessary to protect our country.”Former Justice Department officials said the president’s action would send a deep shudder through an agency that was already on edge as officials anticipated an ideological overhaul once Mr. Session takes over. One former senior official said that department lawyers would be unnerved by the firing.Democrats, meanwhile, hailed Ms. Yates as a principled defender of what she thought was right. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said in a statement that the “attorney general should be loyal and pledge fidelity to the law, not the White House. The fact that this administration doesn’t understand that is chilling.”Mr. Boente has told the White House that he is willing to sign off on Mr. Trump’s executive order on refugees and immigration, according to Joshua Stueve, a spokesman for the United States attorney’s office in Alexandria, Va., where Mr. Boente has served as the top prosecutor since 2015.Mr. Boente, who has been a prosecutor with the Justice Department for 31 years, had no hesitation about accepting the acting attorney general’s job given his “seniority and loyalty” to the department, Mr. Stueve said in a telephone interview on Monday night.As acting attorney general, Ms. Yates was the only person at the Justice Department authorized to sign applications for foreign surveillance warrants. Administrations of both parties have interpreted surveillance laws as requiring foreign surveillance warrants be signed only by Senate-confirmed Justice Department officials. Mr. Boente was Senate-confirmed as United States attorney and, though the situation is unprecedented, the White House said he was authorized to sign the warrants.Ms. Yates’s decision had effectively overruled a finding by the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel, which had already approved the executive order “with respect to form and legality.”Ms. Yates said her determination in deciding not to defend the order was broader, however, and included questions not only about the order’s lawfulness, but also whether it was a “wise or just” policy. She also alluded to unspecified statements the White House had made before signing the order, which she factored into her review.Mr. Trump initially responded to the letter with a post on Twitter at 7:45 p.m., complaining that the Senate’s delay in confirming his cabinet nominees had resulted in leaving Ms. Yates in place.The 1973 “Saturday Night Massacre” led to a constitutional crisis that ended when Robert H. Bork, the solicitor general, acceded to Mr. Nixon’s order and fired Archibald Cox, the special prosecutor.Ms. Yates, a career prosecutor, is different because she is a holdover from the Obama administration. She agreed to Mr. Trump’s request to stay on as acting attorney general until Mr. Sessions is confirmed to be attorney general.
Amid the uproar against President Trump’s executive order on refugees and immigrants over the weekend, one of his companies, Trump Hotels, learned a valuable social media lesson: All’s fair in political warfare, including old tweets. (Just ask Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary.)On Saturday afternoon, as protests grew at airports and courthouses, a 2011 Twitter post from the president’s hospitality business caught fire with social media users who latched onto its once-innocuous inquiry, responding with stories of hardships that their refugee ancestors experienced to get to America. Others just made jokes.That’s what Trump Hotels tweeted in October of that year, adding “We’d love to hear it!”Perhaps not, however, under these circumstances.Nell Scovell, the creator of “Sabrina the Teenage Witch,” provided an early model of the typical response to her 17,000 followers.Hundreds of refugee stories, which people said were lore, followed, with many users invoking the Holocaust or other political violence that they said brought their ancestors to the United States. Others took a more firsthand approach, describing their own relevant travels, while many people highlighted the protests that had swamped airports (and some Trump hotels) on Saturday and Sunday, as well as the earlier Women’s March this month. Below are a sampling of the responses.Of course, Trump Hotels is not the first brand or public figure to face an unanticipated barrage on social media. The New York Police Department (#myNYPD), McDonald’s (#McDStories) and former President Barack Obama (#ObamacareIsWorking) have all had seemingly anodyne messages commandeered by the Twitter masses for other purposes.More recently, Mr. Spicer, President Trump’s press secretary, had some of his old opinions — on everything from Dippin’ Dots to Daft Punk — resurfaced as his public profile grew. (He was not a fan of the spherical ice cream.)As of Monday morning, the original Trump Hotels tweet had not been deleted, and the responses continued. The company did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
WASHINGTON — President Trump was meeting on Friday with Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain in a session fraught with tension as the new American leader contemplates lifting sanctions against Russia despite the objections of many Europeans wary of Moscow.In hosting Ms. May at the White House, Mr. Trump was holding his first meeting with a visiting foreign leader since taking office, and it will test the contours of his new “America First” foreign policy. The meeting came just a day after Mexico’s president canceled his plans to sit down with Mr. Trump amid a dispute over his proposed border wall.Russia presumably will be a major part of the discussion between Mr. Trump and Ms. May. Mr. Trump has scheduled a telephone call with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia for Saturday as administration officials debate how far the American should go in easing up pressure on the Kremlin. Mr. Trump also plans to talk by phone with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who has been a leading voice in Europe for keeping pressure on Russia.Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor, said that Mr. Trump was considering lifting sanctions against Russia. “All of that is under consideration,” she said on “Fox and Friends” on Friday. “And if another nation that has considerable resources wishes to join together with the United States of America to try to defeat and eradicate radical Islamic terrorism, we’re listening.”The United States and Europe have imposed a series of sanctions on Russian officials and companies, mainly in response to the seizure and annexation of Crimea and the separatist war fomented in eastern Ukraine. Before leaving office, President Barack Obama also imposed additional sanctions in response to what intelligence agencies concluded was Russian hacking to influence the American election.Current and former administration officials said the White House appeared to be preparing the ground to lift some or all of those sanctions, either unilaterally or perhaps in exchange for cooperation with Russia on other matters. The National Security Council directed agencies to prepare briefing materials in advance of Mr. Trump’s call with Mr. Putin about sanctions, the Syrian civil war and Eastern Europe, according to officials.One topic that may come up on the call is the fate of Austin Tice, a freelance journalist who disappeared in Syria in 2012. Mr. Trump may ask Mr. Putin for help in pressuring his ally, President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, to release Mr. Tice, according to an official briefed on the matter. Syria has never acknowledged holding him, but Mr. Trump has been considering whether to drop support for the Syrian opposition.In an interview with The Times of London shortly before taking office, Mr. Trump suggested a bargain that would ease sanctions on Russia in exchange for nuclear arms cuts and cooperation in the fight against the Islamic State. Some career government officials argue privately that such a move would essentially adopt Mr. Putin’s playbook, and Republicans in Congress, including Senator John McCain of Arizona, are vigorously opposed to easing sanctions absent Russian concessions in Ukraine.Mr. McCain warned Mr. Trump on Friday against lifting sanctions and vowed to push legislation reinstating them if they were removed. In a scathing statement against Mr. Putin, Mr. McCain cataloged all of Russia’s controversial actions in Ukraine, Syria and elsewhere and said it could not be trusted as a partner.“President Trump should remember this when he speaks to Vladimir Putin,” Mr. McCain said. “He should remember that the man on the other end of the line is a murderer and a thug who seeks to undermine American national security interests at every turn. For our commander in chief to think otherwise would be naïve and dangerous.”Aides would not discuss the terms in detail but said Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin would seek ways to collaborate.“I assume that they will discuss the interests of their respective countries, how to come together, work together, on issues where you can find common ground and where these two nations could maybe defeat radical Islamic terrorism,” Ms. Conway said on “CBS This Morning.”Ms. May was eager to fly to the United States to be the first foreign visitor of Mr. Trump’s administration and forge a relationship with him akin to Margaret Thatcher’s alliance with Ronald Reagan. As Britain begins the process of leaving the European Union, its relationship with the United States has taken on renewed importance, and Mr. Trump has talked about negotiating a new free-trade agreement between the two English-speaking nations.But even as she comes as a friend, Ms. May is delivering a message of caution to Mr. Trump about his friendship with Mr. Putin and willingness to disparage the NATO alliance. In a speech to congressional Republicans in Philadelphia on Thursday, she previewed her point by recalling Mr. Reagan’s favorite line about the Soviet Union: “Trust but verify.”“With President Putin, my advice is to engage but beware,” Ms. May said. “There is nothing inevitable about conflict between Russia and the West and nothing unavoidable about retreating to the days of the Cold War. But we should engage with Russia from a position of strength.”In particular, she said the United States and Britain should “give assurance to Russia’s neighboring states that their security is not in question. We should not jeopardize the freedoms that President Reagan and Mrs. Thatcher brought to Eastern Europe by accepting President Putin’s claim that it is now in his sphere of influence.”
WASHINGTON — President Trump on Tuesday nominated Judge Neil M. Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, elevating a conservative in the mold of Justice Antonin Scalia to succeed the late jurist and touching off a brutal, partisan showdown at the start of his presidency over the ideological bent of the nation’s highest court.Mr. Trump announced his selection during a much-anticipated evening ceremony that unfolded in prime time at the White House. He described Judge Gorsuch, a federal appeals court judge based in Denver, as “a man who our country really needs, and needs badly, to ensure the rule of law and the rule of justice.”“Judge Gorsuch has outstanding legal skills, a brilliant mind, tremendous discipline and has earned bipartisan support,” Mr. Trump said, standing beside the judge and his wife, Louise, as White House officials and Republican lawmakers looked on. “It is an extraordinary résumé — as good as it gets.”But Democrats — embittered by Republican refusals for nearly a year to consider President Barack Obama’s choice to succeed Justice Scalia, and inflamed by Mr. Trump’s aggressive moves at the start of his tenure — promised a showdown over Judge Gorsuch’s confirmation.Joined by liberal groups that plotted for weeks to fight Mr. Trump’s eventual nominee, leading Democrats signaled they would work to turn the Supreme Court dispute into a referendum on the president, and what they contend is his disregard for legal norms and the Constitution. Conservatives and business groups cheered Judge Gorsuch, calling his record distinguished and his qualifications unparalleled.The announcement came at a particularly tumultuous moment in an extraordinarily chaotic beginning to Mr. Trump’s presidency. Just a day earlier, he dismissed the acting attorney general for refusing to defend his hard-line immigration order that started a furor across the United States over what critics condemned as a visa ban against Muslims.“Now, more than ever, we need a Supreme Court justice who is independent, eschews ideology, who will preserve our democracy, protect fundamental rights and will stand up to a president who has already shown a willingness to bend the Constitution,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said in a statement.“The burden is on Judge Neil Gorsuch to prove himself to be within the legal mainstream and, in this new era, willing to vigorously defend the Constitution from abuses of the executive branch and protect the constitutionally enshrined rights of all Americans,” Mr. Schumer said.He said he would insist that Judge Gorsuch meet the 60-vote threshold needed in the Senate to overcome a filibuster for his confirmation to move forward. That would either require eight Democrats to join the Senate’s 52 Republicans to advance the nomination, or force Republicans to escalate a parliamentary showdown — as Mr. Trump has already urged them to do — to change longstanding rules and push through his nominee on a simple majority vote.Republicans and conservative groups signaled they relished a war over Judge Gorsuch’s confirmation.“I hope members of the Senate will again show him fair consideration and respect the result of the recent election with an up-or-down vote on his nomination, just like the Senate treated the four first-term nominees of Presidents Clinton and Obama,” said Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader. He noted that the Senate confirmed Judge Gorsuch without opposition in 2006 to his current seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit.Carrie Severino, the chief counsel for the Judicial Crisis Network, a conservative group that immediately started a $10 million campaign to defend Mr. Trump’s nominee, said the coalition would mount intensive campaigns in crucial states to “force vulnerable senators to choose between obstructing and keeping their Senate seats.”If confirmed, Judge Gorsuch would become the 113th justice and take a seat held not only by Justice Scalia, but also by Justice Robert H. Jackson, perhaps the finest writer to have served on the court. As an Episcopalian, Judge Gorsuch would be the only Protestant seated among five Catholics and three Jewish jurists.He would restore the 5-to-4 split between conservatives and liberals on the court, returning the swing vote to Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, whose rulings have fallen on both sides of the political spectrum.At 49, Judge Gorsuch (pronounced GORE-sutch) is the youngest nominee to the Supreme Court in 25 years, underscoring his potential to shape major decisions for decades to come. In choosing him, Mr. Trump reached for a reliably conservative figure in Justice Scalia’s mold, but not someone known to be divisive.Mr. Trump, who recognized Justice Scalia’s wife, Maureen, in the audience as he announced his choice, heaped praise on the “late, great” jurist, saying his “image and genius was in my mind throughout the decision-making process.”Judge Gorsuch said he was humbled by his “most solemn assignment.”“I will do all my powers permit to be a faithful servant of the Constitution and laws of this great country,” he said. He also praised Justice Scalia as “a lion of the law.”The announcement reopened the bitter wounds that dominated the political battle last year over Mr. Obama’s nominee for the seat, Judge Merrick B. Garland. Republicans refused to even consider — much less support — his nomination in the thick of a presidential campaign.A Colorado native who was in the same class at Harvard Law School as Mr. Obama, Judge Gorsuch is known for his well-written, measured opinions that are normally, though not exclusively, conservative. He holds a doctorate from Oxford University, where he was a Marshall Scholar, and was a Supreme Court law clerk to Justices Byron R. White and Kennedy. That Judge Gorsuch has a personal connection to Justice Kennedy is no accident. By choosing a familiar figure, several officials said, the White House is sending a reassuring signal to Justice Kennedy, 80, who has been mulling retirement.Choosing a more ideologically extreme candidate, the officials said, could have tempted Justice Kennedy to hang on to his seat for several more years, depriving Mr. Trump of another seat to fill.Still, Judge Gorsuch’s conservative credentials are not in doubt. He has voted in favor of employers, including Hobby Lobby, who invoked religious objections for refusing to provide some forms of contraception coverage to their female workers. And he has criticized liberals for turning to the courts rather than the legislature to achieve policy goals.“It is the role of judges to apply, not alter, the work of the people’s representatives,” he said on Tuesday. “A judge who likes every outcome he reaches is very likely a bad judge, stretching for results he prefers rather than those the law demands.”Judge Gorsuch is the son of Anne Gorsuch Burford, who became the first female head of the Environmental Protection Agency under President Ronald Reagan. He attended Georgetown Preparatory School, outside Washington, before going to Columbia University.There had been some speculation that Mr. Trump would choose someone with a less elite background for the court. The other finalist for the post, Judge Thomas M. Hardiman, was the first person in his family to graduate from college, and helped pay for his education by driving a taxi.The White House stoked suspense over Mr. Trump’s court choice in the hours before announcing it. A senior Trump administration official said both Judge Gorsuch and Judge Hardiman were summoned to Washington for the nomination ceremony. But only Judge Gorsuch appeared at the White House gathering shortly after 8 p.m.In an allusion to the intense foreshadowing he and his team did to encourage interest and speculation over the pick, Mr. Trump interrupted his own announcement to marvel at his showmanship: “So was that a surprise?” the president said after announcing Judge Gorsuch’s name. “Was it?”As he looked out into an audience that Democrats had refused to join — several senior lawmakers declined his invitation to attend the East Room ceremony — the president expressed hope that he could avoid a partisan battle.“I only hope that both Democrats and Republicans can come together for once, for the good of the country,” Mr. Trump said.But progressive groups had already gathered at the steps of the Supreme Court to protest a nominee they predicted would be extreme. Nan Aron of the liberal-aligned Alliance for Justice called Judge Gorsuch “a disastrous choice,” adding that his record showed “no sign that he would offer an independent check on the dangerous impulses of this administration.”Conservatives were as ardent in their support. Tom Fitton, the president of the right-leaning group Judicial Watch, called Mr. Trump’s nomination “a major step in the right direction in defining his presidency and moving the Supreme Court away from dangerous and destructive judicial activism.”
BEIRUT, Lebanon — Kim Jong-un might seem an unlikely player in the global jockeying to get on the new American president’s good side, given the North Korean leader’s implied threats as recently as New Year’s Day to launch nuclear missiles at the United States.But Mr. Kim apparently sees in President Trump “a good opportunity for him to open a kind of compromise with the new American administration,” North Korea’s highest-ranking defector, Thae Yong-ho, said in an interview with CNN last week.The bromance between President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and Mr. Trump is the most prominent example of a trend that has swept the world, instilling new hope for a strongman-friendly America in countries like the Philippines, Turkey or Egypt, and among nationalists in many other places who hope to follow in Mr. Trump’s footsteps and gain political power.Many appear to see a Trump presidency as an opportunity to engage with a like-minded leader who has stated nationalist aims. Others may hope for respite from criticism over their human rights records or authoritarian tendencies. Some, like Mr. Kim and Mr. Putin, might see an opportunity to further their national aims in a new geopolitical order.The historian Timothy Garton Ash, writing in The Guardian, called the Trump presidency “a new era of nationalism” in which “the nationalists are giving one another the Trumpian thumbs-up across the seas.”The Philippine president, Rodrigo Duterte, who called former President Barack Obama a “son of a whore” for the Obama administration’s criticism of an officially sanctioned assassination campaign against drug dealers in the Philippines, was quick to congratulate Mr. Trump on his election victory. The Philippine president said last week that Mr. Trump had sent him a message of support.Mr. Duterte, who has threatened to break off relations with the United States, a longtime ally, and turn to China instead, made the announcement during an appearance at the Miss Universe pageant in Manila. (Like Mr. Trump, who owned Miss Universe until 2015, Mr. Duterte has long reveled in appearing in public with beauty queens.)Mr. Duterte appeared unfazed by Mr. Trump’s order last week blocking refugees from the United States and curtailing immigration from some mainly Muslim countries, saying on Sunday that “I will not lift a finger” to help Filipinos facing deportation from the United States, according to The Philippine Daily Inquirer.Even those who were contemptuous of Mr. Trump when he was a reality show star considered a long-shot to win the presidency have changed their tune.In June, after Mr. Trump said he would bar Muslims from entering the United States, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey demanded that Mr. Trump’s name be removed from Trump Towers Istanbul. Mr. Erdogan, an Islamist, has arrested or fired 100,000 opponents and jailed 40,000 more after an unsuccessful military coup last summer.After Mr. Trump’s election, Mr. Erdogan shifted his stance. “I believe we will reach a consensus with Mr. Trump, particularly on regional issues,” Mr. Erdogan said this month during a meeting with Turkish diplomats. Some cracks appeared to show after Mr. Trump’s immigration order Friday: Mr. Erdogan called the move “frankly disturbing.” But he said he would still meet with Mr. Trump at an unspecified date and raise the issue then.And the name of Trump Towers remains unchanged.In Egypt, President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, who has smarted from American criticism about the country’s human rights record and about the military coup that brought him to power, appears to be welcoming Mr. Trump’s leadership. In December, after a phone call from Mr. Trump, Mr. Sisi agreed to delay a vote in the United Nations Security Council on Israeli settlements.Mr. Sisi’s silence in the face of the executive order on refugees was conspicuous, despite widespread sentiment in the region that it was anti-Muslim.In Kazakhstan, the country’s “president for life,” Nursultan A. Nazarbayev, whose poor human rights record is well documented, said Mr. Trump had called him in December and complimented him on the “miracle” he had wrought in his country over its 25 years of independence. Mr. Trump was apparently not referring to Mr. Nazarbayev’s 2015 re-election, which the Kazakh leader won with 97.7 percent of the vote.Mr. Trump has also been lauded by nationalists in Europe, where his anti-immigration messages resonate on a continent that has been swamped with refugees from wars in countries like Syria and with economic migrants. Hungary’s prime minister, Viktor Orban, has welcomed Mr. Trump’s victory, as have far-right leaders such as Marine Le Pen in France.Some of the enthusiasm by authoritarian leaders for Mr. Trump’s presidency seems to be linked to his stated inclination to overturn the world order. That may include rethinking alliances like the North Atlantic Treaty Organization or tackling long-running issues such as North Korea and its nuclear arms program — now overseen by Mr. Kim.In reality, Mr. Kim is still a long way from becoming a friend of Mr. Trump, despite the assertions last week by Mr. Thae, the North Korean defector.Mr. Kim’s anti-American statements have been belligerent even after the election of Mr. Trump, who responded to a supposed North Korean missile threat by posting on Twitter, “It won’t happen!” That led Jeffrey Lewis, a nonproliferation expert, to worry in the magazine Foreign Policy that “Donald Trump is already tweeting us into war with North Korea.”However, Mr. Trump did suggest last year that if he were elected he might meet with Mr. Kim. The offer left the foreign policy establishment shuddering at what many would see as a serious breach of protocol, essentially acknowledging the leader of a state that the United States does not recognize.“I would speak to him. I would have no problem speaking to him,” Mr. Trump said during an interview with Reuters in May.The North Korean and American leaders may find other common ground. When Mr. Trump signed an executive order declaring Jan. 20, his inauguration day, as a “National Day of Patriotic Devotion,” social media feeds lit up with comparisons to declarations from North Korea’s regime of similarly named occasions.For leaders like Mr. Erdogan and Mr. Sisi, the Trump presidency could provide a respite from criticism of their increasingly repressive governments, and it might even validate their tactics.Like other authoritarian leaders, Mr. Erdogan has been a firm ally of the United States and a prickly critic of it. Turkey hosts American military bases and is a member of NATO. But many of Mr. Erdogan’s supporters blamed the United States for the attempted military coup, and Mr. Erdogan has chafed under human rights criticism from Washington of its crackdown on opponents and the news media.Turkish officials have said they are hopeful that the American military will end its cooperation with Kurdish fighters in eastern Turkey. The Pentagon considers the Kurds to be valuable allies, while the Turks see them as terrorist supporters of Kurdish PKK rebels inside Turkey.Turkey has reason to be hopeful. Mr. Trump’s national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, published comments on Election Day calling for stronger support for the Turkish government. Mr. Flynn’s consulting company, Flynn Intel Group, had a contract at the time with a Turkish business association loosely affiliated with the Erdogan government.Mr. Erdogan, who has jailed more journalists than any other leader in the past year, was almost gleeful after Mr. Trump shouted down the CNN reporter Jim Acosta at a news conference in January, responding to CNN and BuzzFeed reports on intelligence briefings regarding unsubstantiated allegations of Russian efforts to blackmail Mr. Trump.“Those who carried out that game back then in Turkey have done him wrong again during the news conference,” Mr. Erdogan said after the event, referring to CNN. “And Mr. Trump put the reporter of that group in his place.”Even with all the friendly words, it is unclear whether Mr. Trump and thin-skinned leaders like Mr. Erdogan and Mr. Duterte will be able to maintain their warm relationships.In Manila, for example, Mr. Duterte’s appreciation of Mr. Trump’s support was qualified. He said he sent a reply to Mr. Trump, via Miss Universe organizers, complaining about his apparent exclusion from Mr. Trump’s inauguration. “I said tell him, ‘Friend, I didn’t go to the inauguration because I wasn’t invited.’”
WASHINGTON — The battle over President Trump’s nominee for the Supreme Court, Judge Neil M. Gorsuch, turned immediately explosive on Wednesday, as Mr. Trump urged Senate Republicans to abandon a 60-vote threshold for confirmation and leaders of both parties strained to navigate what could become the most contentious nomination fight in a generation.Mr. Trump advised the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, to “go nuclear” if necessary, referring to the so-called nuclear option that would scuttle the filibuster in favor of a simple majority vote on Judge Gorsuch, who sits on the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit, in Colorado.“That would be an absolute shame if a man of this quality was put up to that neglect,” Mr. Trump said from the Roosevelt Room of the White House. “I would say it’s up to Mitch, but I would say, ‘Go for it.’”Democrats are grappling with their most consequential strategic decision to date in the age of Trump: how aggressively to oppose the president’s choice for a seat many believe was stolen from their party.In selecting a respected, plainly qualified and deeply conservative jurist, Mr. Trump has dared Democrats to pursue the kind of blanket obstructionism that they long accused Republicans of embracing during the Obama administration.But for a party that has often struggled to match the fury and zeal of its base during the wave of anti-Trump activism since the election, a full-scale showdown may prove unavoidable, doubling as a referendum on resistance tactics to a White House that liberals fear and abhor.Democrats intend to remind the public, with great frequency, about Republicans’ treatment of Merrick B. Garland, President Barack Obama’s nominee to fill the vacant seat last year, who was blocked from even receiving a hearing. Mr. McConnell had said a justice should not be seated during an election year, even though there is no prohibition on such action.Now, their gambit successful, Republicans intend to capitalize on the groundwork laid since Mr. Trump’s election. Leading conservative groups have united for a multimillion-dollar campaign to help Judge Gorsuch, producing television commercials, planning gatherings at megachurches and contacting supporters to encourage them to demand a vote from their senators.For Republicans who were leery of Mr. Trump’s campaign last year, the prospect of adding a conservative to the court was often a powerful motivator to stay in line. He has rewarded their faith.On Wednesday, as Judge Gorsuch made his initial courtesy visits to senators on Capitol Hill, Republican lawmakers assumed the tone of a party in power, appealing for unity and adherence to Senate custom.Judge Gorsuch’s first call after the announcement of his nomination was to Mr. Garland, as a gesture of respect, according to Ron Bonjean, a spokesman for the nomination effort.The nominee was also joined on Wednesday by Kelly Ayotte, a well-liked former Republican senator from New Hampshire, who is helping to shepherd him through the nominating process months after losing her re-election bid.After greeting Judge Gorsuch during his visit, Mr. McConnell asked Democrats to heed their own calls to restore the court to its rightful size.“I would invite Democrats who spent many months insisting we need nine to join us in following through on that advice,” he said from the Senate floor.So far, Democrats have appeared unmoved, and occasionally seething.Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader, said Judge Gorsuch must meet the 60-vote threshold required to overcome a filibuster in the Senate.History — and especially recent history — demand it, he suggested.“This is nothing new. It was a bar met by each of President Obama’s nominations,” Mr. Schumer said. He argued that if Judge Gorsuch could not attract enough support, “the answer will not be to change the rules of the Senate, but to change the nominee to someone who can earn 60 votes.”He said Mr. Trump’s White House had demonstrated “less respect for the rule of law than any in recent memory,” placing a “special burden on this nominee to be an independent jurist.”Breaking a filibuster would require eight members of the Democratic caucus to join the 52 members of the Republican majority to advance the nomination, or force Republicans to change longstanding rules and push through the nomination on a simple majority vote.Transfers of power from one party to the other often compel lawmakers to shift their perspectives, leaning on arguments they once rejected. But the bipartisan whiplash in the Senate has been especially striking.Since Mr. Trump’s announcement, the two parties have rushed headlong into an embrace of the other’s former talking points. Republicans have cast Judge Gorsuch as an unassailable choice, as Democrats did with Judge Garland, trumpeting his appeals court record and his impressive credentials.They reminded some Senate Democrats that they had voted to confirm Judge Gorsuch to a lower court once upon a time, as some Republicans had for Judge Garland. Senators like Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas — who, before the election, raised the possibility of blocking a nomination indefinitely if Hillary Clinton won the presidency — have insisted on swift action.And some Democrats have argued, after nearly a year spent lamenting the vacancy on the court since Justice Antonin Scalia’s death, that Judge Gorsuch must not be allowed to assume the seat.“The Democrats should treat Trump’s SCOTUS pick with the exact same courtesy the GOP showed Merrick Garland,” Dan Pfeiffer, a former senior adviser to Mr. Obama, wrote on Twitter. “Don’t flinch, don’t back down.”Reactions to Judge Gorsuch’s nomination among Democrats seemed to sort themselves into three camps: There were some cautious statements, often from moderate Democrats in states that Mr. Trump won, urging careful consideration of the pick. There were policy-based concerns raised about Judge Gorsuch’s trail of conservative opinions and leanings. And there were arguments that did not focus much on Judge Gorsuch at all, instead framing the choice of any judge not named Merrick Garland as illegitimate.“This Supreme Court seat was stolen from the Obama administration.,” Senator Jeff Merkley, Democrat of Oregon, said on Wednesday. “It casts a big shadow over it. If this seat is filled in this manner, it’s going to undermine the integrity of the court, the legitimacy of the court, for decades to come.”Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut and a member of the Judiciary Committee, struck a more conciliatory note, to a point.“Republicans were outrageously wrong in denying Merrick Garland a hearing and a vote. But two wrongs don’t make a right,” he said in an interview. “We should support a hearing and a vote for Neil Gorsuch. It’s part of the Senate’s job.”He added, though, that Judge Gorsuch should be required to clear 60 votes.In the interim, Democrats and progressive activists have begun zeroing in on elements of Judge Gorsuch’s record. Among their concerns is the fact that he has voted in favor of employers, including Hobby Lobby, who cited religious objections in refusing to provide some forms of contraception coverage to female workers.Mr. Schumer said Judge Gorsuch had “repeatedly sided with corporations over working people” and demonstrated “a hostility toward women’s rights.”Even before many Democrats weighed in, Republicans dismissed any complaints about Judge Gorsuch as empty posturing. Some senators were more creative than others.“Senator Schumer is about to tell Americans that Judge Gorsuch kicks puppies and heckles piano recitals,” Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska, said.That, he hastened to add, was untrue.
At a rally in Denver just days before the election, Donald J. Trump went off on a long tangent attacking Jay Z and Beyoncé for using “filthy” language during performances in support of Hillary Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee.“It’s demeaning to the political process,” Mr. Trump said.Mr. Trump himself had used profane language before in the company of celebrities, like his infamous comments to Billy Bush. But with so many stars turning their backs on him, he developed a daily riff against them — and the broader culture of celebrity in America. The next day, in Michigan, he galvanized his supporters by playing on their disdain for elites in the entertainment world.“And you know the beauty of this crowd?” Mr. Trump said. “It’s without a guitar.”Mr. Trump’s denunciation of pop culture, which has only intensified since his victory, is rich with irony, given that he sought and yearned for acceptance from Hollywood and cultural elites for decades. Just last week, he blasted Madonna and other celebrities on Fox News, claiming they hurt the cause of the women’s march in Washington. Yet for most of his life, A-listers were his base — far more than the average Americans whom he began aggressively cultivating when he ran for president.“His biggest construction project has been the construction of his own celebrity,” said Michael D’Antonio, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of “The Truth About Trump.”Now, as Mr. Trump adjusts to a new kind of spotlight, he appears increasingly determined to discredit and demonize the very celebrity culture that he was once so desperate to be a part of through friendships, fortune and television fame.For years his relationship with Hollywood seemed based on mutual adoration. Guests at Mr. Trump’s wedding to Melania Trump in 2005 were a who’s who from numerous realms: music (Billy Joel), fashion (Anna Wintour), sports (Derek Jeter) and many others.“The only thing that was surprising to me was how all these celebrities would queue up to fawn around Donald Trump, particularly the likes of Madonna, who used to be at all his parties,” said Piers Morgan, the television host. Mr. Morgan became well acquainted with Mr. Trump as a contestant on the first iteration of “Celebrity Apprentice.”“Of course, the moment he stood as the Republican candidate, almost from that day, they turned on him like rattlesnakes and they turned on him as a collective mass,” Mr. Morgan added.But some of Mr. Trump’s wedding guests weren’t exactly close friends. Mr. Joel, for example, told a radio station last year that he didn’t know why he was invited.“I don’t remember much because I think I drank too much,” Mr. Joel said. “But I don’t really know him that well. You know, I think I met him once or twice.”Mr. Trump’s interest in Hollywood began even before he went to Wharton, the University of Pennsylvania’s business school, when he briefly considered attending the University of Southern California’s film school.“I always liked it,” Mr. Trump told Harvey Levin, the founder of TMZ, in an interview on Fox News. “I liked the glamour of movies.”Mr. Trump parlayed his fame as a wealthy real estate mogul into a number of movie and television cameos, while simultaneously expanding his business empire. And then came “The Apprentice,” a perfect storm of the blustery businessman’s bravado and corporate expertise.He was sewn into the pop-culture fabric of America with his prime-time network reality television show, something he intensely desired. He even took the show to Los Angeles for a season and eventually created a spinoff, which brought into sharp focus his love of celebrity.“Donald Trump liked the celebrity world,” Mr. Morgan said. “He liked big stars. He liked being around them, whether they were big sports stars or big entertainers.”As a showman, Mr. Trump was versatile. In 2004, he appeared on MTV at a mock political convention promoting Eminem to “endorse” the rapper for president. At the 2005 Annual Primetime Emmy Awards, Mr. Trump appeared in overalls to sing a spoof of the theme song to “Green Acres,” along with Megan Mullally, best known for her work on the sitcom “Will & Grace.”Eventually, he was permanently enshrined in Hollywood when he received the 2,327th star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2007.“It was something that was given to me by some very powerful people in Hollywood and I’m very honored by it,” Mr. Trump told a reporter afterward.Mr. Trump’s interest in culture stretched beyond television and film. He once was a co-producer on a Broadway play, the beginning of a long fascination with theater, right after graduating from Wharton. It was called “Paris Is Out!” and was poorly received.He often frequented flashy Broadway openings, including “The Phantom of the Opera” in the late 1980s and “The Will Rogers Follies” a few years later, where he applauded Marla Maples, then his fiancée. The publicity from Ms. Maples hitting the stage led the producer of “Paris Is Out!” to tell New York magazine that he was talking with Mr. Trump about the possibility of a musical based on his life. It never came to fruition, but it wouldn’t be the last time that a musical inspired by Mr. Trump was discussed.Then there was the occasional museum visit to curry favor.In the mid-1990s, Mr. Trump met Herbert Muschamp, an architecture critic for The New York Times, at the Museum of Modern Art to discuss a negative review that Mr. Muschamp had given the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Columbus Circle. Mr. Muschamp wanted to show Mr. Trump an Andy Warhol painting from 1962 — “Gold Marilyn Monroe.”“There’s a large sculpture in the middle of the room, a brass floor piece by Donald Judd,” Mr. Muschamp wrote. “Evidently Mr. Trump mistakes it for a coffee table, for he uses it as one, tossing his overcoat and some binders full of pictures on top of it as we walk over to the painting.”For his part, Mr. Trump openly praised Mr. Muschamp’s article about the museum visit.“They say it was the longest article ever written in The New York Times,” Mr. Trump told Mr. D’Antonio, the biographer.But now, Mr. Trump and celebrity culture are in open warfare. He has targeted Broadway, late-night shows, the film industry, top-selling musicians and the many celebrities who would not attend his inauguration.Since his election, artists of all stripes have expressed displeasure with Mr. Trump. Some called for a shutdown of museums to protest his election. Actors lined up to bash him at awards shows, including at the Screen Actors Guild Awards on Sunday. One of the few recognizable names to attend Mr. Trump’s pre-inauguration concert was Jon Voight. Mr. Trump’s star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame was vandalized with a sledgehammer and a pickax in October.Never one to take criticism lightly, Mr. Trump responded by trying to disparage celebrities in the same way he demonizes the news media, often using his favorite tool: Twitter. After the women’s march in Washington, which drew a long list of celebrities, Mr. Trump posted on Twitter: “Watched protests yesterday but was under the impression that we just had an election! Why didn’t these people vote? Celebs hurt cause badly.”Last week, Sean Hannity, a Fox News host, prodded Mr. Trump to respond to Madonna’s comments at the march, in which she said that she had thought about “blowing up the White House.”“I think she hurt that whole cause,” Mr. Trump said. “Her, and a couple of others.”He has since sent shots across the bow at late-night comedy shows, lashing out at “Saturday Night Live” multiple times and calling that show “unwatchable.”The ultimate insult from top artists was when many would not perform at his inauguration, leaving Mr. Trump’s transition team scrambling to find musicians.Mr. Trump outwardly brushed off the slight on Twitter.“The so-called ‘A’ list celebrities are all wanting tixs to the inauguration, but look what they did for Hillary, NOTHING. I want the PEOPLE!”In the end, the lack of cultural firepower in Mr. Trump’s favor didn’t matter: He won. And this might have brought him the satisfaction he has craved, incidentally, without Hollywood’s embrace.“I think he’s had the last laugh because indisputably Donald Trump is not just the most powerful man in America now, he’s the most famous celebrity in America,” Mr. Morgan said. “He probably has a wry smile to himself in the presidential bedroom of the White House.”
WASHINGTON — Just days after President Trump spoke of a “running war’’ with the media, his chief White House strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, ratcheted up the attacks, arguing that news organizations had been “humiliated” by the election outcome and repeatedly describing the media as “the opposition party” of the current administration.“The media should be embarrassed and humiliated and keep its mouth shut and just listen for a while,” Mr. Bannon said in an interview on Wednesday.“I want you to quote this,” Mr. Bannon added. “The media here is the opposition party. They don’t understand this country. They still do not understand why Donald Trump is the president of the United States.”The scathing assessment — delivered by one of Mr. Trump’s most trusted and influential advisers, in the first days of his presidency — comes at a moment of high tension between the news media and the administration, with skirmishes over the size of Mr. Trump’s inaugural crowd and the president’s false claims that millions of illegal votes by undocumented immigrants swayed the popular vote against him.Mr. Bannon, who rarely grants interviews to journalists outside of Breitbart News, the provocative right-wing website he ran until August, was echoing comments by Mr. Trump last weekend, when the president said he was in “a running war” with the media and called journalists “among the most dishonest people on earth.” Mr. Bannon’s remarks added to the growing acrimony between the press and a president who made attacks on the media a rallying point of his election campaign.Among Mr. Trump’s advisers in the White House, Mr. Bannon is responsible for putting into action the nationalist vision that Mr. Trump channeled during the later months of the campaign, one that stemmed from Mr. Bannon himself. And in many ways Mr. Trump has acted on that vision during his first week in office — from the description of “American carnage” he laid out in his inauguration speech to a series of executive actions outlining policies on trade agreements, immigration and the building of a border wall.Mr. Bannon is one of the strongest forces in an administration with competing power centers. A savvy manipulator of the press, and a proud provocateur, he was among the few advisers in Mr. Trump’s circle who were said to have urged Sean Spicer, the new press secretary, to give a confrontational, emotional statement to a shocked West Wing briefing room on Saturday, when the White House disputed news reports about the size of the inauguration crowd. He shares Mr. Trump’s view that the news media misunderstood the movement that the president rode into office.Speaking by telephone on Wednesday, Mr. Bannon delivered a broad indictment of the news media as being biased against Mr. Trump and out of touch with the American public. That is an argument familiar to readers of Breitbart and followers of personalities friendly to Mr. Trump, like Sean Hannity of Fox News.“The elite media got it dead wrong, 100 percent dead wrong,” Mr. Bannon said of the election, calling it “a humiliating defeat that they will never wash away, that will always be there.”“The mainstream media has not fired or terminated anyone associated with following our campaign,” Mr. Bannon said. “Look at the Twitter feeds of those people: They were outright activists of the Clinton campaign.” (He did not name specific reporters or editors.)“That’s why you have no power,” he added. “You were humiliated.”Mr. Bannon spoke in blunt but calm tones, peppered with profanity, and humorously referred to himself as “Darth Vader.” He said, with ironic relish, that Mr. Trump was elected by a surge of support from “the working-class hobbits and deplorables.”The conversation was initiated by Mr. Bannon to offer praise for Mr. Spicer, who has been criticized this week for making false claims at the White House podium about attendance at Mr. Trump’s inaugural, for calling reporters dishonest and lecturing them about what stories to write, and for failing to disavow Mr. Trump’s lie about widespread voter fraud in the election.Asked if he was concerned that Mr. Spicer had lost credibility with the news media, Mr. Bannon chortled. “Are you kidding me?” he said. “We think that’s a badge of honor. ‘Questioning his integrity’ — are you kidding me? The media has zero integrity, zero intelligence, and no hard work.”“You’re the opposition party,” he said. “Not the Democratic Party. You’re the opposition party. The media’s the opposition party.”Journalists reacted with alarm and defiance to Mr. Bannon’s comments. “What country are we living in?” Christiane Amanpour, the CNN correspondent, wrote on Twitter.“We are not the opposition,’’ Stephen Engelberg, editor in chief of the nonprofit news organization ProPublica, wrote in an email. “We are part of an essential function in any democracy.” He added that ProPublica had no intention of “shutting up in response to this or any other president’s demand.”“We are here to tell the truth and we intend to continue doing so, regardless of how badly some might want us to parrot ‘alternative facts,’” Mr. Engelberg said.Mr. Bannon mostly referred to the “elite” or “mainstream” media, but he cited The New York Times and The Washington Post by name.“The paper of record for our beloved republic, The New York Times, should be absolutely ashamed and humiliated,” Mr. Bannon said. “They got it 100 percent wrong.”He added that he has been a reader of The Times for most of his adult life.
While President Trump’s order banning immigration from several Muslim countries led to protests at several American airports, the news was often met with satisfaction and approval in those precincts that Mr. Trump carried in the November election.The protests, when they were addressed by the president’s supporters, were viewed as misguided and a source of irritation.“People at airports are on tight schedules and are henpecked enough as it is,” Jay Cost, a senior writer for the conservative Weekly Standard, said on Twitter. ”It is uncivil and rude.”Dan McLaughlin, a securities lawyer in Los Angeles, in an article for National Review, wrote that the anger over the new policy was “seriously misplaced,” and he argued that the policy was far less radical than critics had made it seem.“His policy may be terrible public relations for the United States,” Mr. McLaughlin wrote. “But it is fairly narrow and well within the recent tradition of immigration actions taken by the Obama administration.”Others said that the policy, which went into effect on Friday night, had already been effective. Mark Kern, a video game designer turned conservative political pundit who has supported video surveillance of mosques, voiced his approval. He said that Mr. Trump’s decisive action was a welcome change.“If we sit and debate and prevaricate, remember Europe did this too, and now wishes it hadn’t,” he wrote in one Tweet. He added later, “Luckily we now have a POTUS who does not waver or hesitate to do what is needed. And despite hysteria to the contrary, lawfully.”The conservative pundit Tomi Lahren, who supports Mr. Trump, wrote in an email that, “It’s not intolerant or unloving to put Americans and American safety first. Every nation has the right to protect its people first.”“Somehow the left doesn’t seem to understand or agree with that right,” she said.The response on the right was far from monolithic. The Koch brothers condemned the order as the “wrong approach”, and so did writers at their libertarian think-tank, the Cato Institute. John Podhoretz, the conservative commentator, reaffirmed that he thought Islamic terrorism posed a threat, but he wrote that the policy was not “based in fact.”In fact, Mr. Podhoretz wrote, the order resembled what he characterized as a liberal solution to major problems — a grand, gesture that the president was using to rally his base.“They are making horrible policy for naked political advantage based in disingenuousness,” he concluded. “And that’s no way to run a country.”A Quinnipiac poll taken in mid-January, before Mr. Trump issued the order, found that 48 percent of Americans were in favor of “suspending immigration from terror prone regions, even if it means turning away refugees.” Mr. Trump’s order immediately closed the nation to refugees and to people from some predominantly Muslim countries including Iraq, Syria and Iran.In the same poll, 53 percent or respondents were in favor of requiring Muslim immigrants to register with the federal government.A member of Mr. Trump’s transition team, Kris Kobach, had suggested before the new president took office that a national registry for immigrants from countries plagued by terrorism might be reinstated. A spokesman for Mr. Trump at the time, Jason Miller, later clarified that the registry would not track individuals based on their religion.Reuters reported that while protests filled airports where travelers were being held, many other people around the country were nonchalant about the order and puzzled by the protests.Louise Ingram, 69, of Troy, Ala., told Reuters that while she was not opposed to immigrants, “I just want to make sure they are safe to come in.”“A country is not a country if it doesn’t have borders,” said Steve Hirsch, 63, who was at Dulles International Airport in Virginia, where hundreds of people were protesting, to pick someone up this weekend.On Mr. Trump’s official Facebook page, his supporters thanked him for the action. One user, Jason Juno Lee, who identifies himself as a Marine, posted a comment comparing the United States after the order to a safely locked house.“I lock my doors every night,” he wrote. “I don’t lock them because I ‘hate’ the people outside. I lock them because I love the people inside!”Another user named Wes Schmaltz was more concise: “Thank you President Trump for doing exactly what you were elected to do.”
SEOUL, South Korea — President Trump assured South Korea’s acting president on Monday of the United States’ “ironclad” commitment to defend the country, agreeing with Seoul to strengthen joint defense capabilities against North Korea.Mr. Trump’s assurances came amid anxiety in South Korea over the future of the alliance with the United States. During his campaign, Mr. Trump cast some doubt on the United States’ defense and trade commitments, saying that South Korea was not paying enough to help keep 28,500 American troops in the country.But speaking by phone to Hwang Kyo-ahn, the acting president of South Korea, Mr. Trump said that the coming visit to South Korea by Defense Secretary Jim Mattis reflected the close friendship of the two countries and the importance of their alliance. Mr. Mattis is scheduled to visit South Korea on Thursday on his first official trip abroad, which also includes a stop in Japan.“President Trump reiterated our ironclad commitment to defend the R.O.K., including through the provision of extended deterrence, using the full range of military capabilities,” the White House said in a statement after Mr. Trump’s phone conversation with Mr. Hwang, using the initials for South Korea’s official name, the Republic of Korea.“The two leaders agreed to take steps to strengthen joint defense capabilities to defend against the North Korean threat.”Mr. Hwang’s office quoted Mr. Trump as saying that the United States would cooperate with South Korea “100 percent” and that bilateral relations would be “better than ever before.”The two leaders shared the need for firm action to persuade North Korea to rethink its nuclear weapons development program and vowed to respond strongly if the North attempted military provocations, it said.Mr. Trump’s call with Mr. Hwang followed North Korea’s recent warnings that it could conduct its first test of an intercontinental ballistic missile “anytime and anywhere,” in a rebuke to Mr. Trump.Although North Korea has vowed to develop the ability to attack the United States with nuclear warheads and has tested missiles that can cover the Korean Peninsula and its vicinity, it has never tested a long-range missile that could fly over the Pacific.In a New Year’s Day speech, Kim Jong-un, North Korea’s leader, said his country had reached a “final stage” in preparing to test an intercontinental ballistic missile. The next day Mr. Trump said in a Twitter post, “It won’t happen!”It remains unclear how close North Korea is to building a reliable intercontinental ballistic missile, although North Korea has boasted of successfully testing crucial technology in the past year, such as long-range engines and heat shields for such a missile.Mr. Hwang, the prime minister of South Korea, is serving as acting president because President Park Geun-hye’s powers were suspended after the country’s Parliament voted to impeach her in December on charges of corruption and abuse of power.The Constitutional Court of South Korea is expected to decide in the coming weeks whether to formally end her presidency or reinstate her.
WASHINGTON — President Trump on Saturday signed an executive order that strengthens certain restrictions on lobbying that had been adopted under President Obama, while weakening others.Executive branch employees, including those in the White House, will now be barred for five years after they leave government from lobbying the federal agency where they worked. Under Mr. Obama, they had to wait until the end of the administration, meaning a shorter ban for some departing officials. Former executive branch officials will now also be permanently banned from serving as foreign lobbyists.“Most of the people standing behind me will not be able to go to work,” Mr. Trump joked about their prospects after serving in the White House during a short signing ceremony in the Oval Office as advisers — including his chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, and counselor, Kellyanne Conway — stood behind him.Mr. Trump also signed two other memos. One outlined a reorganization of the National Security Council that appeared to include a significant change from the Obama administration, one that would expand Mr. Bannon’s power in the administration.It said that Mr. Bannon, the former head of Breitbart News, would be among the “regular attendees” at “principals committee” meetings — the interagency forum for cabinet-level officials to discuss national security policy. But the director of national intelligence and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff “shall attend where issues pertaining to their responsibilities and expertise are to be discussed.” Under Mr. Obama, the officials in those two positions were invited to all meetings.The other memo directed the Pentagon to come up with a “comprehensive plan” in the next 30 days to defeat the Islamic State.In a subtle change, the Trump administration also apparently did away with the acronym used by the Obama administration to refer to the terrorist group — ISIL, which stands for the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant.The documents that Mr. Trump signed on Saturday referred to the group as ISIS, shorthand for the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria. The Levant denotes an area larger than Syria.Mr. Trump’s ethics policy also has provisions that will affect officials while they are working in the government. As part of the order he signed, executive branch employees will be barred for two years from working on any “particular matter” that they had been involved in while in the private sector. That is the same amount of time that Mr. Obama imposed on officials who worked for him.Mr. Trump’s measure would prohibit Rex W. Tillerson, who has been nominated to serve as secretary of state, from playing any role in matters related to Exxon Mobil, where until recently he had served as chief executive.The provision may also limit matters that Scott Pruitt, who has been nominated to lead the Environmental Protection Agency, can take up. Mr. Pruitt, who served as Oklahoma’s attorney general, has repeatedly sued the agency.Norman L. Eisen, the ethics lawyer when Mr. Obama arrived in the White House and the chief author of the rules that Mr. Trump is now replacing, commended much of Mr. Trump’s order.But Mr. Eisen and other ethics experts noted that rules banning lobbyists from taking any job with an agency they had tried to influence in the past two years had been removed. Also, the new rules allow departing executive branch employees to take private sector jobs and then informally lobby the administration, as long as they are not registered as a lobbyist, a type of activity previously prohibited for two years. Registration is required once a person does a certain amount of work for a client.“There is much to like,” Mr. Eisen said of the new executive order. “But it gives nonlobbyists too much leeway when they leave. That is where the biggest problem in the system is: unregistered, shadow lobbyists. They should be getting more regulation, not less.”He also said, “Trump kept the Obama limits on the revolving door coming into government, but eliminated Obama’s revolving door protections for nonlobbyists leaving government.”The Islamic State directive calls on Defense Secretary Jim Mattis to devise a more aggressive plan to destroy the group. During the campaign, Mr. Trump widely criticized the handling of the operations by the Obama administration and the military. At one point, he said that he knew “more about ISIS than the generals do.”Mr. Trump said during the campaign that he would ask for the 30-day review. He claimed that he had a secret plan to defeat ISIS.Because Mr. Trump had been explicit about his intention to ask for the review, military planners have been drafting classified options to provide to Mr. Trump.Among the measures that Mr. Mattis may ultimately recommend are using American artillery on the ground in Syria and using Army attack helicopters to help with the invasion of the group’s de facto capital, Raqqa.
WASHINGTON — President Trump on Monday reiterated his intention to roll back Dodd-Frank financial regulations enacted to prevent another financial crisis, telling reporters that he soon planned to do “a big number” on the 2010 law.During the 2016 campaign, Mr. Trump had pledged to “dismantle” Dodd-Frank, passed when Democrats controlled the White House and Congress, without specifying the actions he planned to take. He has not announced his timetable for carrying through on that pledge as president.Mr. Trump’s pick for secretary of the Treasury, Stephen T. Mnuchin, a hedge fund manager, also has promised to “kill” parts of the law, including the so-called Volcker rule restricting banks from making certain kinds of speculative investments of the kind that led to the 2008-9 global economic crisis.“Dodd-Frank is a disaster,” the president said during a 10-minute session with reporters as he signed an executive order slashing government regulations.“We’re going to be doing a big number on Dodd-Frank,” Mr. Trump said. “The American dream is back.”Before meeting with business leaders late Monday morning, Mr. Trump again took credit for the performance of the stock market, which recently crossed the 20,000 milestone for the first time.Perhaps the most important section of Dodd-Frank is the requirement that banks undergo periodic stress tests to monitor liquidity and their ability to withstand a financial shock akin to the collapse of the housing market in 2008.In response to the law, banks have curbed parts of their businesses, including proprietary trading, and focused more on raising revenue through consumer services.The financial services industry spent millions seeking to prevent Dodd-Frank from going into effect, but some in the industry have cautioned against creating new upheaval by scrapping it completely.“We’re not asking for wholesale throwing out Dodd-Frank,” Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of J.P. Morgan Chase, said at a financial services conference in December.The executive order that Mr. Trump signed on Monday requires federal agencies to identify two regulations they plan to cut whenever requesting a new one — a requirement that opponents have called arbitrary, but one that fulfills an early campaign pledge.
President Trump promised some of the nation’s top drug company executives in a meeting at the White House on Tuesday that he would slash regulations at the Food and Drug Administration and make it easier for them to manufacture products in the United States.He also described as “fantastic” the person he planned to nominate for commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, someone he said would streamline the agency and get drug approval decisions faster.“You can’t get approval for the plant, and you can’t get approval for the drug; other than that, you’re doing fantastic,” Mr. Trump said at the meeting, to laughter from top executives of companies like Merck, Johnson & Johnson, Eli Lilly and Novartis.But even as he struck a cordial tone with them, he said that lowering drug costs would remain a focus and that he would discuss the issue further during the nonpublic portion of the meeting, away from the news media. “The U.S. drug companies have produced extraordinary results for our country, but the pricing has been astronomical,” Mr. Trump said. “We have to get prices down for a lot of reasons.”Battered by public outrage over the rising costs of drugs in recent years, the drug industry has regarded Mr. Trump warily in recent weeks. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks rallied after his election as investors bet that Mr. Trump would reduce corporate taxes and adopt more industry-friendly policies than his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, who had made reducing drug prices a campaign issue.But that optimism gave way to unease after Mr. Trump pledged to tackle the drug pricing issue himself, including raising the possibility of allowing Medicare to negotiate the prices of drugs directly, something the industry has long opposed.Just a few weeks ago, Mr. Trump singled out the pharmaceutical industry for its high prices, accusing it of “getting away with murder.”At the meeting Tuesday, Mr. Trump again referred to Medicare’s role, saying he would oppose anything that prevented competition, including “price fixing by the biggest dog in the market, Medicare, which is what’s happening.”A White House spokesman later clarified that his remarks meant that the president “supports increasing bidding and competition for all drugs in Medicare.”But the president also tried to persuade the executives that he would provide them with assistance, saying: “We can save tens of billions of dollars, and you people are going to do great. You’re going to do great.”In comments after the meeting, the drug industry leaders said it had been productive and said they welcomed the president’s pledges on cutting regulations and speeding approvals.But drug safety advocates criticized his comments, saying that eliminating agency regulations would mean rolling back consumer protections on products as diverse as drugs, cosmetics, food and dietary supplements.“Trump’s horrifying proposal reflects utter ignorance about the F.D.A.’s essential role in protecting public health and once again demonstrates his commitment to placing corporate profits above protecting the safety of the American people,” said Dr. Michael Carome, director of Public Citizen’s health research group.Dr. Carome said many of the regulations had been set up by Congress so they could not easily be removed. “Most of these regulations, to do away with them would require new statutes and new laws to be passed,” he said.Others said the agency had already loosened the approval process for new drugs in recent years, with questionable benefit.“Streamlining drug approvals sounds good, but the agency has already weakened approval standards and patients are paying the price — hugely expensive drugs that don’t even work,” said Diana Zuckerman, president of the National Center for Health Research, a Washington research group that advocates strong safety and efficacy standards. She recently studied expensive new cancer drugs and found that many did not help patients feel better or live longer.During the meeting, Mr. Trump also told the executives that he was close to naming a candidate to lead the F.D.A.“You’re going to get your products — either approved or not approved — but it’s going to be a quick process,” he said. “It’s not going to take 15 years,” apparently a reference not to the length of time it takes the agency to approve drugs but to how long it takes a to develop a drug.He also appeared to express frustration at what he said were unnecessary delays by the agency, especially for drugs that treat patients who are close to death. The agency justifies the delay by saying it needs to evaluate whether the drug is safe, and whether it works, Mr. Trump said: “We can’t approve the drug because we don’t want to hurt the patient,” he said, “but the patient is not going to live more than four weeks.”The Trump administration has not said who the finalists for the position are, but two widely circulated candidates are Dr. Scott Gottlieb, a former F.D.A. official with longstanding ties to the pharmaceutical industry, and Jim O’Neill, an associate of the billionaire Silicon Valley investor Peter Thiel, who has said he favored allowing drugs to be approved even if their efficacy had not been proved.At the meeting, many of the drug industry leaders were eager to emphasize their long histories in the United States as well as their American manufacturing plants, even though the pharmaceutical industry — like many others — has increasingly moved its production overseas. More than half of the finished drug products that are sold in the United States are made here, according to a recent report in The Wall Street Journal, but the majority of the raw ingredients used to make those products are manufactured in countries like China and India.Even Joseph Jimenez, the chief executive of the Swiss pharmaceutical giant Novartis, emphasized the company’s American ties, pointing out the billions of dollars it spends on research and development and saying, “Our global headquarters is near Boston.” Eric Althoff, a spokesman for Novartis, which is based in Basel, Switzerland, said Mr. Jimenez was referring to the company’s research and development headquarters.Mr. Jimenez and others supported Mr. Trump’s pledge to cut taxes and regulations. “One of the things that can help us is a lower tax rate,” Mr. Jimenez said.“Yep, we’ll get it,” Mr. Trump replied.
WASHINGTON — The White House is drafting a presidential directive that calls on Defense Secretary James N. Mattis to devise plans to more aggressively strike the Islamic State, which could include American artillery on the ground in Syria and Army attack helicopters to support an assault on the group’s capital, Raqqa, officials said.President Trump, who is to make his first visit to the Pentagon as commander in chief on Friday, will demand that the new options be presented to him within 30 days, the officials said. During the presidential campaign, Mr. Trump repeatedly said that he had a secret plan to defeat the Islamic State, but he also said that he would give his commanders a month to come up with new options.The White House is also expected to press for a review of the United States nuclear posture — one that retains all three legs of the nuclear arsenal with weapons aboard bombers and submarines and in underground missile silos — as well as a review of how to achieve the president’s goal of fielding a “state of the art” antimissile system.During the campaign, Mr. Trump pledged to expand the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps, and a draft directive calls for steps to improve the military’s readiness to fight on short notice.The directive to identify new ways to hasten the demise of the Islamic State, also known as ISIS and ISIL, has been widely anticipated by military commanders, who have begun drafting classified options to increase the pressure on the militant group, especially in Raqqa and Mosul, the stronghold in Iraq.Work on the directive was described by several current and former officials who are close to the White House and who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the administration’s internal deliberations. The White House had no comment.The man charged with overseeing this re-examination of American defense is Mr. Mattis, a retired Marine Corps four-star general who commanded American forces in the Middle East and will be working in partnership with Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The men have known each other for years and Mr. Mattis used to be General Dunford’s commanding officer while in the Marines.Mr. Mattis will face multiple challenges. As an emissary to longstanding allies in Asia and Europe, he has staked out a position as the Trump administration’s reassurer-in-chief.One of Mr. Mattis’s first moves as defense secretary was to phone the NATO secretary general to assure him that he strongly supported the alliance that Mr. Trump has criticized as “obsolete.” Mr. Mattis will fly to Asia next week on a trip to allay concerns in Japan and South Korea that the United States might abandon longstanding commitments to their security.A week after that, Mr. Mattis is expected to make another reassurance trip — this one to Europe — to meet with counterparts at NATO in Brussels and then at a security conference in Munich.Lawmakers and even some members of the military are hoping that Mr. Mattis can also serve as a counterweight on some of the new administration’s more hard-line positions. In a classified operations center at one Special Operations headquarters, a photo of Mr. Mattis is taped to a board with various captions written underneath. On Thursday morning, the caption read: “Watch over us.”During his first visit to the Pentagon, Mr. Trump will conduct a ceremonial swearing-in of Mr. Mattis and is expected to sign the new directives and have a short meeting with the Joint Chiefs of Staff.Mr. Trump and Mr. Mattis appear to have some positive chemistry. They were seen chatting warmly on the reviewing stand during the inaugural parade. The new commander-in-chief relishes referring to “Mad Dog” Mattis at every opportunity, even though the retired general does not like that nickname and insists it is no more than a media invention.And while they agree on the need for more military spending, some of the defense secretary’s views are at odds with his new boss, including his skepticism of Russia’s intentions, his traditional support for allies and flat opposition to the use of torture in interrogating terrorists.The day before Mr. Mattis came to work at the Defense Department, he issued a statement to the Pentagon work force that cast the United States as a bulwark of the international order and the guardian of important alliances. In contrast to the “America First” oratory emanating from the White House, Mr. Mattis vowed that the Pentagon would work “for an America that remains a steady beacon of hope for all mankind.”“General Mattis is prepared to give the president the best advice he can as secretary of defense even if it’s not something the president wants to hear,” said Senator Jack Reed of Rhode Island, the senior Democrat on the Armed Services Committee, who spoke to Mr. Mattis on Tuesday. “The question is, how long can he do that if he’s not being responded to.”Crafting a plan to step up the fight against the Islamic State is the most urgent task facing Mr. Mattis. When President Barack Obama left office, half of Mosul remained in the hands of the militants. Tens of thousands of American-backed Syrian Kurdish and Arab fighters were closing in on Raqqa, but there was no agreement on which force should seize the capital itself.The potential options include expanding the use of American Special Operations forces, raising the troop ceilings on United States forces in Iraq and Syria and having the White House delegate more authorities to the Pentagon and its commanders in the field, to speed up decision-making.A difficult decision also confronts the Pentagon on whether to risk alienating Turkey by arming the Syrian Kurds for the Raqqa battle, or whether to cobble together a more diverse force that could include Turkish troops, Turkish backed opposition groups and perhaps even elements of the Army’s 82nd Airborne Division, as well as Apache helicopters and artillery. Turkey considers the Syrian Kurds terrorists and has been trying to forge closer ties with the Trump administration.Expanding the American military will also pose challenges because of the soaring cost of some key weapons programs and the ambitious scope of the buildup Mr. Trump is seeking. As the steward of the Pentagon’s nearly $600 billion annual budget, Mr. Mattis will face tough choices, as it seems unlikely that the additional spending Mr. Trump plans for the armed forces can pay for all of the ambitious programs he has promised.During the campaign, Mr. Trump called for a Navy of 350 ships, up from the current fleet of 272, and to expand the Army to 540,000 troops, an increase of about 65,000. The Air Force and Marines would also grow.Funding such a military building would be costly. While the Pentagon has yet to outline its spending under the new administration, a paper by Senator John McCain, who heads the Armed Services Committee and is advocating a similar buildup, calls for spending $430 billion more than is currently planned, for the next five years.Other directives in the works could affect the military. Mr. Trump told ABC News on Wednesday that he would “absolutely do safe zones” in Syria for refugees fleeing the violence there. A draft executive order obtained by The New York Times calls for Mr. Mattis, along with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, to produce a plan within 90 days for safe zones in Syria.In the past, American military officials have warned that such a move would escalate the American involvement in the war in Syria, something the Obama administration staunchly opposed.Military experts are looking to see who will join Mr. Mattis’s team at the Pentagon — and how many are picked by the new defense secretary himself. Mr. Mattis’s chief of staff will be Kevin M. Sweeney, a retired rear admiral whom Mr. Mattis has known for years. His senior military assistant will be Rear Adm. Craig S. Faller, who previously served as the top operations officer at Central Command when Mr. Mattis was in charge there.
MEXICO CITY — Amid the diplomatic showdown over President Trump’s order to build a border wall — and who should pay for it — Mr. Trump and President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico spoke by phone on Friday, both leaders said.The two spoke for about an hour, and both presidents made an effort to say that the call had been productive, suggesting that tensions had cooled, at least publicly.But they stood their ground on their positions, with no suggestion that the call had resolved their disagreement over fundamental issues.“With respect to the payment for the border wall, both presidents recognized their clear and very public difference between their stances on this very sensitive issue,” the Mexican president’s office said in a statement. “The presidents also agreed for now to not speak publicly about this controversial issue.”The standoff with Mexico’s president has been the first full-blown foreign policy clash with a foreign leader for the Trump administration.After Mr. Trump ordered the border wall to be built, months of tensions between the two men came to a boil this week. On Thursday, Mr. Peña Nieto, who has long urged diplomacy in the face of Mr. Trump’s disparaging comments about Mexico, canceled a meeting with the new American leader.Mr. Trump quickly fired back, saying that Mexico saddles the United States with criminals, illegal immigrants and unfair trade. On Friday, he repeated the same themes.“We had a very good call,” Mr. Trump said in a news conference in Washington. “The border is soft and weak, drugs are pouring in, and I’m not going to let that happen.”“We’re going to be working on a fair relationship and a new relationship,” Mr. Trump said, adding, “We’re no longer going to be the country that doesn’t know what it is doing.”Mr. Trump said: “I have great respect for the Mexico. I love the Mexican people.”But “as you know,” he added, Mexico “has outnegotiated us and beat us to a pulp through our past leaders.”“They’ve made us look foolish,” he said.During the campaign and now as president, Mr. Trump has taken aim at perhaps the most prized possession of Mexico: its image.Throughout his presidency, Mr. Peña Nieto has tried to portray his country as a place of economic opportunity, a cultural capital and a nation rising on the world stage.Mr. Trump has sought to show the opposite, characterizing Mexico as a bastion of crime, illegal immigration and the overwhelming beneficiary of free trade between the two countries.For months, though his ratings fell to the lowest of any Mexican president in recent history, Mr. Peña Nieto resisted the temptation to saber-rattle, arguing that the relationship with America was simply too important to fall prey to a war of words.To the growing anger of many Mexicans, he avoided responding rashly to Mr. Trump. Calls for the building of a wall, promises to deport millions and threats to tear up the North American Free Trade Agreement had been met with measured, understated responses.But once Mr. Trump took office and pushed to make good on his campaign pledge to build a wall, the domestic pressure on Mr. Peña Nieto became too great.Across the Mexican political and intellectual class, calls for him to cancel the meeting reached a fever pitch this week. Mr. Peña Nieto canceled a meeting with Mr. Trump scheduled for next week, earning him political points at home.As for what comes next, the Mexican president’s office said on Friday that the two leaders had “agreed to solve these differences as part of an all-encompassing discussion of all aspects of the bilateral relationship.”“Both presidents have instructed their teams to continue the dialogue to strengthen this important strategic and economic relationship in a constructive manner,” the statement from Mr. Peña Nieto’s office said.
WASHINGTON — President Trump began a new era of diplomacy with Russia on Saturday as he and President Vladimir V. Putin conducted an hourlong telephone call, and vowed to repair relations between the countries after nearly three years of conflict that threatened a new Cold War between East and West.The two leaders discussed fighting terrorism and expanding economic ties, but barely mentioned the wedge that has been driven between Washington and Moscow since Russia annexed Crimea and sponsored a separatist war in eastern Ukraine in 2014. Still, although Mr. Trump had previously expressed a willingness to lift sanctions against Russia, the issue did not come up, according to officials on both sides.The tone of the conversation was reported to be warm, indicating a drastic shift after relations had broken down between Mr. Putin and former President Barack Obama. “The positive call was a significant start to improving the relationship between the United States and Russia that is in need of repair,” the Trump administration said in a statement. “Both President Trump and President Putin are hopeful that after today’s call, the two sides can move quickly to tackle terrorism and other important issues of mutual concern.”In its statement, the Kremlin said: “Donald Trump asked to convey a desire for happiness and prosperity for the Russian people, noting that the people in America relate with sympathy to Russia and its citizens.” Mr. Putin answered that Russians feel the same way about Americans, the statement said. Neither side mentioned the Russian hacking of the American election in their statements.Over the past two days, Mr. Trump has also had a series of conversations with the United States’ traditional European allies, but those calls were seemingly not as congenial. After a meeting on Friday with Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain, in which she warned against removing sanctions on Russia, Mr. Trump had on Saturday what appeared to be a businesslike call with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and a testier call with President François Hollande of France.Mr. Hollande’s office said the French president pressed Mr. Trump not to lift sanctions against Russia and to respect the nuclear agreement with Iran. He asserted the importance of the Paris climate change pact, warned of the consequences of protectionism, and added that democratic values included welcoming refugees — all in reaction to Mr. Trump’s first week of policy moves. Mr. Hollande also emphasized the importance of NATO and the United Nations, both of which Mr. Trump has disparaged.The call came just hours after Mr. Hollande, at a conference in Lisbon, said that European countries had to stand together against Mr. Trump, and assert their common values.“We have to be conscious of the responsibility we have,” he told reporters, according to Agence France-Presse. “Europe is a force, Europe is a guarantee, Europe is protection, and Europe is also a space for liberty and democracy.”Ms. Merkel, who has reacted coolly to Mr. Trump’s rise, emphasized the importance of NATO in their own 45-minute call with the president on Saturday. The two sides later released similar statements affirming the American commitment to the alliance, even as they noted that allies needed to increase their contributions, as Mr. Trump has demanded.But the tone was spare and lacked warmth. That the statements included a description of what has been a cornerstone of policy for decades illustrated just how rattled trans-Atlantic relations have been since Mr. Trump dismissed NATO as “obsolete” shortly before his inauguration.Mr. Trump’s conversation with Mr. Putin was their first direct discussion since the inauguration a week ago and aimed at setting the groundwork for a possible meeting.American intelligence agencies have concluded that Russia made a concerted effort — through hacking, propaganda and other means — to influence the November election in favor of Mr. Trump, a conclusion Mr. Trump initially refused to accept until he received a detailed briefing. Intelligence officials also briefed both Mr. Obama and his successor on a mysterious dossier compiled by political foes of Mr. Trump that included unsubstantiated claims that Russia had collected compromising information on the future president.The Federal Bureau of Investigation reviewed an intercepted postelection conversation between Michael T. Flynn, now the national security adviser to Mr. Trump, and Sergei I. Kislyak, the Russian ambassador. American authorities are also examining possible links between Russian officials and associates of Mr. Trump, including his former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort.Mr. Trump’s phone call with Mr. Putin came after news reports in Moscow that two Russian intelligence officers who had worked on cyberoperations, as well as a Russian computer security expert, had been arrested on treason charges. One of the Federal Security Service officers detained has been accused of providing information to the United States, according to Novaya Gazeta, a Russian opposition newspaper.The United States and Europe have imposed an array of sanctions on Russia for its intervention in Ukraine and for human rights abuses at home. Before leaving office, Mr. Obama imposed additional sanctions and expelled 35 Russian diplomats in retaliation for that country’s interference in American elections. Lifting them, critics said, would cause a rift between the United States and Europe.“That’s going to lead to disunity and exactly what Putin wants,” said Michael McFaul, who served as ambassador to Russia under Mr. Obama. “What could be better for him? Not only the act of sanctions’ being lifted but the process of disunity and disarray within the European Union. That’s a giant gift to him.”Senate Republicans may have slowed Mr. Trump on sanctions after Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, said he would favor bipartisan legislation requiring that sanctions stay in place. Mr. Trump tried to play down the prospect at a news conference with Mrs. May on Friday, saying it was “very early to be talking about” sanctions relief. But he did not disavow it, and government officials said there had been discussion of what to do on sanctions since Mr. Trump’s team took over.Joining Mr. Trump in the Oval Office for his phone call with Mr. Putin was Vice President Mike Pence; Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff; Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist; Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary; and Mr. Flynn.The Kremlin said the two leaders talked about the Middle East, including the Syrian civil war; the Islamic State; the Israeli-Palestinian conflict; and Iran’s nuclear program, although it gave no specifics. North Korea and strategic nuclear arms came up, as did “key aspects of the Ukraine crisis,” the statement said.“It was agreed to cooperate on these and other issues,” the Russian statement said, “but the priority was placed on uniting forces in the fight against the main threat — international terrorism.”But an American official, who was briefed on the call but not authorized to discuss it publicly, said Ukraine did not come up in any real detail, and sanctions did not come up at all.Still, a leading member of Russia’s Parliament, Dmitri Novikov, said that mention of bolstering trade ties suggested that sanctions relief was coming. “To fully develop economic ties, it’s necessary to create the right climate and legal conditions, and that requires canceling sanctions,” he told the Interfax news agency.Others seemed to be expecting the same. Soon after the call, a Russian government investment fund, the Russian Direct Investment Fund, announced it had arranged more than 10 projects it hoped could draw American investment to Russia, and that it planned to open an office in New York in May.Mr. Trump also spoke on Saturday with Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull of Australia and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan. He invited Mr. Abe to visit the White House on Feb. 10. “President Trump affirmed the ironclad U.S. commitment to ensuring the security of Japan,” the administration said in a statement, a commitment that had been in doubt among some in Tokyo after some of Mr. Trump’s statements during the campaign.
■ President Trump tells Senator Mitch McConnell: “Go nuclear” if Democrats block his Supreme Court nominee.■ The nominations of Steven Mnuchin to be Treasury secretary and Tom Price to head the Department of Health and Human Services cleared their committees.■ President Trump, meeting with African-American supporters, said Frederick Douglass “has done an amazing job.”President Trump had a blunt message for Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader: If Democrats follow through on threats to filibuster his pick for the Supreme Court, Neil M. Gorsuch, Mr. McConnell should “go nuclear.”“Yes, if we end up with the same gridlock we’ve had in Washington for longer than eight years, in all fairness to President Obama, a lot longer than eight years. If we end up with that gridlock, I would say, ‘If you can, Mitch, go nuclear,’” Mr. Trump told reporters at the White House on Wednesday morning. to “go nuclear” refers to a Senate rules change that would allow the Republican majority to close debate and call for an up-or-down floor vote without a 60-vote threshold.“It’s up to Mitch, but I’d say go for it,” Mr. Trump said of the maneuver which would require a simple majority vote to instead of the 60 needed to stop a Democratic filibuster.Senate Democrats pulled the so-called nuclear option to confirm President Barack Obama’s judicial and executive branch nominations but left in place the 60-vote hurdle for Supreme Court justices. So far, Mr. McConnell has said he was not ready to tear down that last barrier for presidential nominations.Mr. Trump has never been one to hold back, and Democrats are in a tough spot. Liberals are pressuring Democratic leadership to fight Mr. Gorsuch’s nomination, after Mr. McConnell refused to even hold confirmation hearings for Appeals Court Judge Merrick Garland, Mr. Obama’s choice to succeed late Justice Antonin Scalia.But obstruction could force the rules change.“It’s a false choice,” said Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, who has signaled he would demand, under Senate rules, that Mr. McConnell muster 60 votes for the nomination. He has urged Mr. Trump to select a less conservative jurist than Mr. Gorsuch whose views would put him on the right edge of the court, with Mr. Scalia’s frequent ally Justice Clarence Thomas.Senate Finance Committee Republicans suspended their rules of operation and approved the nominations of Representative Tom Price to be secretary of health and human services and financier Steven Mnuchin to be Treasury secretary — with no Democrats present.The unanimous votes for confirmation are a bit misleading. Democrats had tried to delay the finance committee votes, demanding answers from both nominees about recent news reports of insider-trading allegations involving Mr. Price and roughshod treatment of homeowners by Mr. Mnuchin’s Southern California bank — as well as his evasive and incomplete answers about both.Republicans decided enough was enough. Committee rules require a quorum that includes at least one member from the minority party. But Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia, moved to suspend the rules, and with no Democrat present to object, the committee chairman, Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, gaveled it done, invoking the Democrats’ Tuesday boycott:Of course, “unprecedented” is in the eyes of the beholder. Senate Republicans’ blockade of Mr. Obama’s nominee to the Supreme Court appears to have given Democrats a reason to obstruct pretty much however they choose.Senator Ron Wyden, the ranking Democrat on the committee, emerged in the hallway after the vote and lamented the breaking of a tradition that required a member of the minority party to be in attendance for a vote.He said that revelations about Mr. Price and Mr. Mnuchin that came to light in recent days raised serious questions about their nominations.While it appeared that there were no additional moves that Democrats could make to slow the nominations, Mr. Wyden said that they would continue ask questions.“What we’re going to do, and it may sound like a quaint idea, is to follow up,” Mr. Wyden said. “We’re going to keep pushing to get the facts.”Senate Democrats on Wednesday pulled the same stunt with another one of President Trump’s cabinet nominees, Scott Pruitt, who was nominated to head the Environmental Protection Agency.Democrats boycotted Mr. Pruitt’s scheduled confirmation vote by the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, saying Mr. Pruitt had declined to adequately answer their questions and address their concern about how he would run the agency charged with protecting the environment. As attorney general of Oklahoma, Mr. Pruitt has led or taken part in 14 lawsuits against the E.P.A., aimed at blocking or weakening existing environmental regulations.Yes, that Frederick Douglass, former slave, abolitionist and statesman who died in 1895.Meeting with African-American supporters at the White House on Wednesday, the president let it be known that Mr. Douglass, an important figure in American history, had come to his attention.“Frederick Douglass is an example of somebody who has done an amazing job and is being recognized more and more, I notice,” Mr. Trump said. “Harriet Tubman, Rosa Parks and millions more black Americans who made America what it is today. A big impact.”Yes, he said that.Mr. Trump’s hope for relative peace and calm this weekend at Mar-a-Lago, his private club in Palm Beach, Fla., may be disrupted.Emboldened by demonstrations across the country, and the White House’s decision to scotch a trip to Milwaukee rather than face angry opponents, protesters are planning a march outside the club as it hosts the annual American Red Cross gala.The gala has been held at the club in previous years, and Mr. Trump has attended. It is unclear whether he will this year.But the protests will paint an untimely tableau for a president whose last five days have been spent facing fallout from his executive order banning travel over the next few months from seven Muslim-majority nations.Their action may have been encouraged by the White House itself. The decision to cancel President Trump’s trip to Milwaukee for a Harley-Davidson factory visit on Thursday was sure to have repercussions for the already energized activists opposing Mr. Trump’s presidency.Harley-Davidson was worried about the protests likely to greet Mr. Trump and the possible harm to its popularity, just as Peyton Manning was last week when he dashed out the back door of a Republican retreat in Philadelphia rather than risk the cameras.The Democratic National Committee is already mocking the decision.“Donald Trump is a real tough guy when it comes to locking up a scared 5-year-old boy trying to find his mother,” said Zac Petkanas, Democratic National Committee senior adviser. “But as soon as he has to face the American people to defend his illegal anti-Muslim ban, he chickens out. What a profile in courage.”First, President Trump called his hard stop on refugees and visas to seven Muslim nations a ban.Then his press secretary, Sean Spicer, stood at the White House podium on Tuesday and said it was not a ban, a position he held to, even after reporters quoted his boss.Now Mr. Trump has asked, “What’s in a name?”Glad that’s settled.Plans for President Trump’s state visit to Britain are all coming a cropper.When British Prime Minister Theresa May invited Mr. Trump last week to pay a state visit to Britain, a call on Queen Elizabeth II was part of the invitation. But royal visits tend to involve more than just the queen, and the Prince of Wales has made clear that he intends to give Mr. Trump a piece of his mind about the urgent need to address climate change.American officials have made clear that Mr. Trump has no intention of being lectured by Prince Charles and instead, he wants to be greeted by Prince Charles’s much cuter children, including Prince William, his attractive wife, Kate Middleton, and their young children.Of course, this 2012 post on Twitter might make that a tad awkward as well:But Prince Charles, who has been denied a kingship most of his life because of his mother’s decision to hang onto the crown into her 90s, has made clear that he does not intend to be passed over by Mr. Trump.The royal snag is one of several that have cropped up over Mr. Trump’s visit. British Prime Minister Theresa May thought her own visit to the White House had gone swimmingly, only to discover that shortly after she left, Mr. Trump had signed an executive order barring refugees and the entry of anyone from seven countries, which caused a firestorm in Britain.Ms. May was accused of appeasement by a former British diplomat. Protesters gathered outside 10 Downing Street on Monday night, and more than 1.5 million signatures collected on an internet petition demanding that Mrs. May rescind her invitation for Mr. Trump to visit Queen Elizabeth II.Mrs. May has insisted that her invitation remain in force, but the initial bloom of her visit has decidedly faded. And now Prince Charles has promised to give it a royal tarnish.The Obama administration’s efforts to regulate the once flourishing for-profit university system did not get a lot of attention, but they had big consequences.Critics of the universities saw fake diploma mills that recruited students with advertising on buses, on subways and even in homeless shelters, and then helped them get guaranteed student loans from the federal government. Money in hand, the for-profits often left the students to their own devices. If they dropped out, or got degrees that proved worthless in the work world, so be it: The taxpayer would pay off the loans if the students couldn’t.The Obama-era regulations tightened up recruiting rules and tied loans to the schools’ records of getting their students the jobs they were promised. Many for-profit universities went under.Now, President Trump — who just settled a fraud suit against his Trump University — has asked Liberty University’s president, Jerry Falwell Jr., a stern critic of accreditation rules, to head a White House task force on higher education, assigned to focus on “overregulation and micromanagement,” a Liberty spokesman told NBC News.“The goal is to pare it back and give colleges and their accrediting agencies more leeway in governing their affairs,” Mr. Falwell, an evangelical Christian, told The Chronicle of Higher Education.The pendulum could be swinging back fast.Whether former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. will actually run for president in 2020 at age 78 is still uncertain, but some of his plans for life after 44 years of public service became a bit more clear on Tuesday after he announced the formation of the Biden Foundation.And not surprisingly, Mr. Biden used one of his father’s favorite aphorisms to mark the occasion.“My dad used to have an expression, ‘It’s a lucky person who gets up in the morning, puts both feet on the floor, knows what they’re about to do and thinks it still matters,’” Mr. Biden said in a statement. “We look forward to this new chapter.”Mr. Biden and his wife, Dr. Jill Biden, intend to use the foundation to advance some of their dearest foreign and domestic policy priorities, including their cancer initiative, combating violence against women, and supporting U.S. military service members and their families, according to the announcement.Several of the Bidens’ closest friends and family members will serve on the board of the charity, including former Senator Ted Kaufman and Valerie Biden Owens, Mr. Biden’s sister.
Vincent Viola, the billionaire Wall Street trader who is President Trump’s nominee to be secretary of the Army, has been negotiating to sell his airline, a move that would alleviate a potential conflict of interest. But, if the deal goes ahead, he may be buying himself another headache.Mr. Viola, co-owner of the Florida Panthers hockey team with an estimated net worth of approximately $1.8 billion, has been trying to swap his majority interest in Eastern Air Lines for a smaller stake in Swift Air, a charter company with millions of dollars in hard-to-track government subcontracts, according to people with knowledge of the negotiations who spoke on the condition of anonymity.While Mr. Viola’s reasons for seeking a sale of Eastern Air Lines are not known, such a transaction would certainly reduce his exposure to the airline industry, which is heavily regulated by the federal government. But in exchange, Mr. Viola, a retired Army major, may find himself in the precarious position of being a government official who benefits from federal contracts.Mr. Trump has asked an unusual number of extraordinarily wealthy businesspeople to join his administration, and ethics lawyers and government watchdog groups have predicted that their complicated financial lives could create conflicts of interest. Mr. Viola has remained largely under the radar, but his airline negotiations bring an unexpected twist, showing that even when appointees try to sell assets, the transactions can be bedeviled with ethical issues.It is not known exactly how much Swift, based in Phoenix, earns from the government; it is a subcontractor and its government business is not logged in any public, federal contracting database online. But one person with knowledge of its operations said it takes in at least $15 million to $18 million a year from Immigration and Customs Enforcement alone, in part from deporting illegal immigrants.As for Eastern, James Tolzien, the company’s chief executive, said the airline had flown just three government-related flights, transporting child refugees for the Administration for Children and Families.If the deal proceeds, Swift would have a powerful shareholder who has the president’s ear at a time when Mr. Trump is looking to increase deportations.“As a government official, he would be in a position to push the policy in a way that benefits him,” said Charles Tiefer, a law professor at the University of Baltimore who specializes in government contracting. “As an ethical matter, that would be inappropriate. And he should not put himself in a position where he could push a controversial policy in a direction that profits him.”The current status of the negotiations, which have not been previously reported, and the financial terms under discussion are not known. Eastern Air Lines — the latest, and far smaller incarnation of the once-famous domestic airline — is worth upward of $25 million and is 75 percent owned by Mr. Viola, according to one person with knowledge of its operations, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.Mr. Tolzien declined to comment on whether his airline was in talks with Swift, saying only that Eastern Air Lines had received “numerous strategic offers for possible sale, acquisition or merger.” Jeff Conry, Swift’s chief executive, declined to comment.David White, a spokesman for President Trump’s transition team and speaking on behalf of Mr. Viola, said: “Mr. Viola shared all of his business dealings with the transition and is actively pursuing full compliance with all requirements necessary for his confirmation.”Mr. Trump seems particularly fond of Mr. Viola, who is the son of a truck driver and who founded Virtu Financial, a high-frequency trading company. “Vincent Viola, everybody likes Vincent,” Mr. Trump remarked just hours after his inauguration while signing orders nominating his cabinet at the Capitol. Nearby, the Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer of New York, chimed in: “I like Vinnie.”There has not been much media attention surrounding Mr. Viola’s nomination, though he did recently make the news because of an incident in August in which he was accused of punching a concessions worker at a racehorse auction in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. No charges were brought against him.The man who may soon be Mr. Viola’s boss, Mr. Trump, is facing criticism of his own for how he has handled his business interests. He has ignored repeated calls to sell his assets to avoid allegations of self-dealing. Instead, Mr. Trump has said his two sons will run his company and his assets have been placed into a trust. The president, however, has refused to name the trust’s beneficiary or trustee publicly.A top aide also recently said Mr. Trump had no intention of releasing his tax returns, a decision that leaves Americans largely in the dark about the extent of his business ties.Mr. Trump’s situation is a bit different; the president is exempt from federal laws that prohibit employees from participating in government matters that will affect their own financial interests.But Mr. Viola, along with Mr. Trump’s other picks for top government jobs, is not exempt. There are a variety of ways they can deal with assets that might present a conflict, including placing them in a blind trust, or selling them.The Florida Panthers announced in December that Mr. Viola’s interest in the team would be placed in a trust, but it is unclear if this was done to address a conflict or simply to allow him to step away from the day-to-day operations of the team.“I don’t see a conflict in the secretary of the Army owning a hockey team,” said Richard W. Painter, a professor of law at the University of Minnesota and a chief White House ethics lawyer under President George W. Bush.Beyond that, Mr. Viola has yet to announce how he plans to deal with his assets. His confirmation hearing has not yet been held, and the Office of Government Ethics has not made available a list of his assets. Like Swift, two of Mr. Viola’s other major assets, Virtu and Independent Bank Group, are regulated by the federal government.Mr. Viola is not the only appointee with a complicated portfolio.In January, The New York Times reported that Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law, had been involved in negotiations to sell a stake in his family’s flagship building to a large, opaque Chinese company.Mr. Kushner, who has a close relationship with Mr. Trump and advises him on foreign affairs, was subsequently appointed as a senior adviser to the president. He has resigned his position as chief executive of his family’s real estate firm and announced plans to sell various assets to his brother or to a family trust controlled by his mother, a plan that some ethics experts said did not go far enough.And Anthony Scaramucci, a former Trump campaign fund-raiser appointed as the White House liaison to the business community, has yet to be confirmed in the face of concerns over the recent sale of his investment firm to a Chinese company with deep ties to the nation’s Communist Party.Though the nomination of Mr. Viola, who graduated from West Point, requires confirmation by the Senate, his new job is not a cabinet position.Eastern Air Lines is a familiar name to many people; it was once one of the “big four” domestic airlines of the mid-20th century but eventually went bankrupt. A new company acquired the rights to its name and intellectual property, and Mr. Viola bought a majority stake in that company in 2014.Eastern has six aircraft, according to the Federal Aviation Administration. The person with knowledge of its operations said it had not turned an annual profit since 2014. The company’s planes are primarily used to shuttle private clients, such as the Florida Panthers.In October an Eastern Air Lines plane carrying Mike Pence, a vice-presidential candidate at the time, overshot the runway at La Guardia Airport, skidding sideways into a field of concrete blocks. The plane has not flown commercially since, resulting in a significant loss of revenue for Eastern, according to the people with knowledge of the matter.Swift operates 12 Boeing 737s, according to F.A.A. records. A main client is CSI Aviation, a government contractor. CSI and Swift have provided charter flights to deport illegal immigrants. They also transport unaccompanied children apprehended near the United States border with Mexico to refugee and resettlement shelters, according to a document provided to Congress by Sarah Saldaña, former director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement under the Obama administration, and reviewed by The New York Times.Since 2009, CSI Aviation has been paid more than $844 million in federal contracts, including over $819 million from the immigration agency, according to procurement records analyzed by The Times. Swift’s recent government work is more difficult to pin down because there is no comprehensive public, online database of federal subcontracts. Since 2010, the direct (or prime) recipients of federal contracts have been tasked with reporting some subcontract information for public consumption at USAspending.gov, but the results have been patchy.“I.C.E. has no insight into a prime and subcontractor relationship,” said Sarah Rodriguez, a spokeswoman for the immigration agency, in response to questions about the amount of money Swift makes from its subcontracts with CSI Aviation.As secretary of the Army, Mr. Viola would be the senior civilian official overseeing his agency’s budget and personnel. The Department of Defense, where he would work, generally represents about 70 percent of federal contract spending over all, and spent about $303 billion on contracts in the 2016 fiscal year, an uptick from the previous year. Almost $74 billion of that was spent by the Army. Comparatively, Immigration and Customs Enforcement spent about $1.3 billion in that period.It is unclear whether Swift is currently doing any work for military. If Mr. Viola were to interfere directly in the contracting process to favor a company, he could be in violation of contracting and conflict-of-interest laws.“We’re not used to seeing company officials in such large numbers inside the government,” Mr. Tiefer said. “It creates an opportunity for undue influence.”
In an event with black supporters billed as an “African-American History Month listening session,” President Trump on Wednesday veered into some of his preferred topics, including crime and media bias.Kicking off the session in the White House’s Roosevelt Room, Mr. Trump promised to “honor the tremendous history of the African-Americans throughout our country.” A full transcript of the president’s remarks was provided by the White House.The president mentioned the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. early in his remarks, saying that his “incredible example is unique in American history.”He then quickly turned to an earlier grievance, what he called “fake news,” citing the mistaken pool report that Dr. King’s bust had been removed from the Oval Office, a topic that received considerable attention in the days after the inauguration. Mr. Trump told the group:Mr. Trump also made a special mention of Frederick Douglass, which caused critics to conclude that he believed the iconic abolitionist, writer and speaker was still alive. Douglass died in 1895. Mr. Trump spoke of him in the present tense:The president also repeated claims that American communities are not safe:Recent F.B.I. data indicates that crime rates have been dropping for decades, despite a slight uptick in violent crimes in 2015 that was mostly concentrated in urban areas, including Chicago, which Mr. Trump referred to as “totally out of control.”Mr. Trump also took the opportunity to call the news media “the opposition party,” something his chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, had said in an interview with The Times.Mr. Trump told the group:At other points Mr. Trump thanked Fox News for treating him “very nice” and insinuated that CNN was “fake news.”The group included more than a dozen people who introduced themselves briefly. They included a pastor and his wife, a former Capitol police officer, a defense employee, and an official with the Thurgood Marshall College Fund, among others. Also on hand were members of Mr. Trump’s staff, including Omarosa Manigault, a contestant from his programs “The Apprentice” and “Celebrity Apprentice.” She has been named director of communications for his Office of Public Liaison.“Omarosa is actually a very nice person,” Mr. Trump joked, prompting laughter. “Nobody knows that but I don’t want to destroy her reputation.”Social media reactions to the president’s comments were swift, with many questioning his commitment to celebrating Black History Month.More broadly, critics pointed out that Mr. Trump has a checkered history in the area of race relations, from his comments about the five black and Latino teenagers who were falsely accused and later exonerated of raping a white woman in Central Park in 1989, to his recent Twitter spat with Representative John Lewis, the Georgia Democrat and civil rights leader.Last month, after Mr. Lewis called Mr. Trump an “illegitimate president,” Mr. Trump criticized the civil rights leader as being “all talk, talk, talk – no actions or results. Sad!” He later tried to defuse the angry reaction by meeting with Dr. King’s eldest son.
President Trump’s executive order on immigration indefinitely barred Syrian refugees from entering the United States, suspended all refugee admissions for 120 days and blocked citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries, refugees or otherwise, from entering the United States for 90 days: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.The order unleashed chaos on the immigration system and in airports in the United States and overseas, and prompted protests and legal action.Here is a quick guide to what we know and what we don’t know about the order.The executive order was signed at 4:42 p.m. Eastern on Friday. The full text can be found here.The order does not affect naturalized United States citizens from the seven named countries.After the order was signed, students, visitors and green-card-holding legal permanent United States residents from the seven countries — and refugees from around the world — were stopped at airports in the United States and abroad, including Cairo, Dubai and Istanbul. Some were blocked from entering the United States and were sent back overseas.Thousands of people protested the executive order in cities across the country on Saturday, many of them at airports. Those protests continued on Sunday, and a large rally was held outside the White House.On Saturday night, a federal judge in Brooklyn blocked part of Mr. Trump’s order, saying that refugees and others being held at airports across the United States should not be sent back to their home countries. But the judge stopped short of letting them into the country or issuing a broader ruling on the constitutionality of Mr. Trump’s actions.Federal judges in three states — Massachusetts, Virginia and Washington — soon issued similar rulings to stop the government from removing refugees and others with valid visas. The judge in Massachusetts also said the government could not detain the travelers.On Sunday morning, the Department of Homeland Security said it would comply with the rulings while it continued to enforce all of the president’s executive orders. “Prohibited travel will remain prohibited,” it said in a statement.Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, said on Sunday that green card holders from the seven banned countries would not be prevented from returning to the United States “going forward.” That appeared to be a reversal from one of the order’s key components.Mr. Priebus also said that border agents had “discretionary authority” to subject any travelers, including American citizens, to additional questioning and scrutiny if they had been to any of the seven countries mentioned in the executive order.United States Customs and Border Protection instructed airlines to stop passengers from the banned countries from boarding flights and to remove any who had already done so. Airline crew members from the seven named countries were also barred from the United States, it said.An official message was sent to American diplomatic posts around the world instructing them to immediately stop visa interviews for citizens of the seven banned countries and to halt the processing or printing of any pending visas.The order was widely condemned by Democrats, religious groups, business leaders, immigration policy experts, academics and others, but was praised by some Republican leaders, including House Speaker Paul D. Ryan, and supporters of Mr. Trump.It was not clear on Sunday how consistently airport officials across the country were complying with the court rulings that partly blocked Mr. Trump’s executive order.Application of the order appeared to be uneven on Saturday, and it was unclear what criteria were being used to decide whether a detainee should be admitted to the United States.Officials did not clarify what criteria had been used on Saturday to determine whether a green card holder from one of the banned countries would receive a waiver from the order. The executive order said only that a waiver could be granted when it was deemed “in the national interest.”Mr. Priebus’s statements on Sunday morning did little to clarify how the executive order would be interpreted and carried out in the days and weeks ahead, in particular how border agents will exercise their “discretionary authority.”The process by which this executive order was prepared is also unclear. The White House said the State Department and Department of Homeland Security had been involved in preparing it for several weeks, but multiple officials at both agencies denied that claim.Two officials said leaders of Customs and Border Protection and Citizenship and Immigration Services — the two agencies most directly affected by the order — and other agencies had been briefed on the new policy over the phone around the time that Mr. Trump signed it on Friday.
WASHINGTON — President Trump’s litany of false statements and spurious claims has opened a national debate on the fragility of a fact-based society. But overseas, where America’s allies and enemies parse a president’s every word for signs of threat or reassurance, Mr. Trump’s falsehoods have prompted a different kind of alarm.From defense treaties to trade pacts, foreign leaders are struggling to gauge whether they can depend on the United States to honor its commitments. They are sizing up a fickle president whose erroneous remarks on small issues cast doubt on what he might say on the big ones — the future of NATO, say, or the Iran nuclear deal — that involve war and peace.Mr. Trump spent the weekend in a round-robin series of phone calls with foreign leaders, clearly designed to settle nerves. But from Tokyo and Beijing to London and Berlin, foreign officials are watching the president’s false assertions with alarm, unsure of whether they can trust him and wondering whether that will undermine their dealings with Washington.“If he’s telling lies on relatively unimportant things, like the size of the crowd at his inauguration or whether or not it rained on his parade, that’s not of great importance in the overall scheme of things,” said Peter Westmacott, a former British ambassador to the United States.“But as I used to say to my staff,” he added, “if I can’t rely on you to get the small things right, how can I count on you to do so on things that really matter?”For foreign leaders, particularly those who depend on the United States for a security umbrella or as a market for their goods, Mr. Trump’s unreliability sets up an acute diplomatic challenge. The best they can do, in some cases, is to try to pin him down on basic facts or nudge him in the right direction, as two European leaders, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain, both did in recent days.In a phone call with Mr. Trump on Saturday, Ms. Merkel objected to the president’s temporary ban on the entry of Muslims from seven countries. To make her case, the chancellor’s spokesman said, Ms. Merkel found herself explaining to him the Geneva Conventions, which oblige countries to protect refugees of war on humanitarian grounds.For Mrs. May, who visited the White House on Friday, the goal was to clarify Mr. Trump’s position on NATO. During the presidential campaign, he derided the alliance as obsolete and questioned whether the United States would automatically come to the defense of its members. More recently, he has said the United States will support it — a pledge the prime minister claimed to have extracted from him in their closed-door meeting.“Mr. President, I think you said, you confirmed that you’re 100 percent behind NATO,” Mrs. May said at a joint news conference, looking at Mr. Trump, who did not mention the alliance in his remarks.Diplomats draw a distinction between Mr. Trump’s plainly false assertions about crowd sizes or the millions of people who voted illegally in the election and his hints about lifting sanctions on Russia or promises to rip up the Iran nuclear deal. The latter two fall into a more standard category of positions taken by a political candidate that may later change.Mr. Westmacott said those were not what he would call “barefaced lies.” “They are early statements of policy,” he said, “perhaps not well thought through, which European capitals — and others which might draw the wrong conclusions — need to see clarified.” Mrs. May’s meeting with Mr. Trump, he said, was a useful first step in that process.The trouble is, Mr. Trump’s willingness to bend the truth could make it difficult to judge when the United States has settled on firm policies on these issues.Much of that may hinge on the influence wielded by a cadre of senior cabinet officials, including Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and Secretary of State-designate Rex W. Tillerson, who hold views that differ from their boss’s and are regarded as steadier hands than him.For France and Germany, the White House’s embrace of what a senior adviser, Kellyanne Conway, called “alternative facts” carries another chilling political dimension. Both countries are holding elections this year in which far-right populist parties are mounting a vigorous challenge to the political establishment.Mr. Trump and his aides view his election victory as part of a populist wave that swept through Britain, with its vote to leave the European Union, and will now deluge the Continent.Breitbart News, a far-right website until recently run by Mr. Trump’s chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, is setting up outposts in Paris and Berlin, which French and German officials worry will propagate “fake news” to try to swing the elections. Germany has already been targeted by fake news operations, which officials believe emanate mostly from Russia.German officials said Ms. Merkel was studiously pursuing a businesslike relationship with the president as part of their shared call on Saturday. “She doesn’t want any differences to obscure the key relationship we have with the United States,” said Peter Wittig, the German ambassador to Washington.That relationship, however, will be tested by Mr. Trump’s cultivation of Russia, which has long subverted facts and truth in its ideological struggle with the West. Some diplomats said the president’s false statements blurred the line between the United States and authoritarian states.“America’s enemies feared it for dealing in facts while they offered disinformation and conspiracy theories,” said Husain Haqqani, Pakistan’s former ambassador to Washington. “All that changes when the White House embraces the notion of ‘alternative facts.’”“Conspiracy theories and disinformation put out by America’s detractors gain greater currency once the distinction between fact and false claim is eroded at the American end,” Mr. Haqqani said.Presidents, to be sure, have long dissembled on matters of national security. Lyndon B. Johnson was known for his “credibility gap,” the historian Robert Dallek pointed out, while Richard M. Nixon once ordered a devastating South Vietnamese military defeat in Cambodia to be presented to the public as a victory. These falsehoods have a cumulative effect on a president’s credibility, Mr. Dallek said, particularly when they involve war and peace.“The worst is when you’re lying to the public and lives are being lost,” he said. “Those chickens come home to roost.”Mr. Trump has been in office for only about 10 days. On multiple foreign policy fronts, he has done what he said he would do in the campaign. He closed the borders to the seven Muslim-majority countries. He pulled out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, dealing a coup de grâce to a 12-nation trade agreement. And he signed an executive order to build a wall on the nation’s southern border, demanding again that Mexico pay for it.Mexican officials, however, said they felt betrayed by Mr. Trump because he posted his latest demand on Twitter on the same day that a high-level delegation sent by President Enrique Peña Nieto arrived in Washington to meet with White House staff members to smooth over concerns about border security. Mr. Peña Nieto angrily canceled a trip to Washington.“Any world leader’s first audience is their home audience,” said Jorge Guajardo, who was Mexico’s ambassador to China. “The possibility of being humiliated by the president in your home country is untenable.”For some foreign policy experts, Mr. Trump’s falsehoods are not themselves a cause for panic. Some recall the line attributed to the 17th-century English diplomat Sir Henry Wotton: “An ambassador is an honest gentleman sent to lie abroad for the good of his country.” It is instead Mr. Trump’s stubborn adherence to assertions that are so easily disproved that worries them.“People can understand the tactical lie,” said Eliot A. Cohen, a professor of strategic studies at Johns Hopkins University and a vocal critic of Mr. Trump. “What’s unnerving is the sense that when he lies, he actually believes it — the sense that he is fundamentally unmoored from reality.”
The children around the world who need emergency international assistance the most come mainly from the countries singled out in President Trump’s order barring entry to the United States, according to a United Nations assessment.Five of the seven countries where children are most imperiled are on Mr. Trump’s list of nations where visas are suspended: Iraq, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.The children most at risk are Syrian, whether they have fled as refugees or are still in their country, according to Unicef, the United Nations’ children’s agency. All Syrians have been barred indefinitely from entering the United States under Mr. Trump’s executive order.Other countries where Unicef says children are imperiled include the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Nigeria and South Sudan. They are not part of Mr. Trump’s temporary ban on visas — though the order also bars all refugees, regardless of where they come from, for 120 days.“This shows who the ban really impacts: the world’s most vulnerable, women and children who are fleeing terror,” said Jennifer Sime, a senior vice president at the International Rescue Committee, a humanitarian organization focused on refugees. “America is turning away from its leadership role on refugee resettlement, and it is refugees who are paying the price.”The United Nations compiled the assessment weeks before Mr. Trump signed the executive order and published it on Tuesday.Here is what the Unicef report says the agency needs for the five countries included in the executive order where children are most at risk.The United Nations says it needs around $1 billion to aid children displaced by six years of conflict in Syria.Calling the Syrian refugee crisis “the largest humanitarian crisis since the end of World War II,” Unicef says there are more than 2.2 million children living as refugees in countries neighboring Syria.The organization is also asking for more than $300 million to help more than 5.8 million children still living in the war-torn country. It says most of that money is needed for water, sanitation, hygiene and medical aid.Unicef is seeking about $200 million in aid for Yemen, which is in a civil war and straining from a devastating famine. The organization says the bulk of that money would go to feed 6.9 million children this year.More than 5.1 million children are in need in Iraq, about one-quarter of them displaced from their homes by conflict. The United Nations is seeking about $160 million to vaccinate more than five million children under 5 against polio.The United Nations plans to help more than two million Sudanese children under 5 who are acutely malnourished. Unicef is seeking more than $100 million, most of it for nutrition programs.“Somalia remains in a state of chronic humanitarian crisis,” Unicef said in its appeal for more than $60 million, estimating that as many as 850,000 children there who are under 5 will be acutely malnourished in 2017.
A group of Nobel Prize winners said it would damage American leadership in higher education and research. House Speaker Paul D. Ryan and some relatives of Americans killed in terrorist attacks said it was right on target. An evangelical Christian group called it an affront to human dignity.The reaction on Saturday to President Trump’s ban on refugees entering the United States, with particular focus on certain Muslim countries in the Middle East and Africa, was swift, certain — and sharply divided.The order drew sharp and widespread condemnation Saturday from Democrats, religious groups, business leaders, academics and others, who called it inhumane, discriminatory and akin to taking a “wrecking ball to the Statue of Liberty.” Thousands of professors, including several Nobel laureates, signed a statement calling it a “major step towards implementing the stringent racial and religious profiling promised on the campaign trail.”Thousands of protesters rushed to airports to demand the release of people who were being held on arrival. The protesters erupted in cheers Saturday night when a federal judge in Brooklyn ruled that the government could not immediately send the travelers back.And around the world, allies and critics alike voiced concern about what the new American policy could mean.Iran’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs called the executive order “a clear insult to the Islamic world,” a violation of international law, and “a great gift to extremists and their supporters.” It warned that Iran “will take reciprocal measures in order to safeguard the rights of its citizens.”Stéphane Dujarric, a spokesman for the United Nations, said, “We hope that these measures are temporary, as refugee protection needs have never been greater.” And Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada used his Twitter feed to reiterate his government’s open policy toward refugees, particularly those from Syria.“To those fleeing persecution, terror & war, Canadians will welcome you, regardless of your faith,” Mr. Trudeau wrote. “Diversity is our strength.”International reaction, though, was far from uniform. Politicians who have called for restricting Muslim immigration have gained support in a number of European countries, and one of them, Geert Wilders of the Netherlands, praised Mr. Trump on Twitter: “I would do the same. Hope you’ll add more Islamic countries like Saudi Arabia soon.”Still, some immigration policy experts in the United States questioned the logic behind the action. They noted that terrorists who had carried out attacks in the United States had not entered as refugees, and that Muslim attackers had been born here or came from countries like Pakistan or Saudi Arabia — which were not on the list of seven mostly Muslim countries that the administration has singled out for a halt to entry.“Foreigners from those seven nations have killed zero Americans in terrorist attacks on U.S. soil between 1975 and the end of 2015,” Alex Nowrasteh, an immigration policy analyst at the libertarian Cato Institute, wrote on the group’s website.The president’s executive order, issued on Friday, brought a positive, if muted, reaction from some Republicans, and could prove popular politically.Michael Banerian, 22, who was a Trump elector in the Electoral College, and is the youth vice chairman of the Michigan Republican Party, said he saw the president’s more narrowly tailored order as common sense. “I feel that it’s a necessary step for us to take for the security of our nation,” he said. “I don’t think it’s un-American. I think it’s very reasonable.”Kathleen Ganci, 67, whose husband, Peter J. Ganci Jr., the highest-ranking uniformed officer of the New York Fire Department, was killed in the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, said she supported the order, too.“I don’t care how difficult it makes it for these people to come over,” she said. “I don’t want other Americans to go through what I did — because we have to care for our own first, before we care for others.”And Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a group that seeks to restrict immigration, said it makes sense to suspend the refugee program temporarily, examine it, “and at least begin to initiate some changes.”“I don’t know what form those changes will take, and I’m not sure the administration knows yet,” he said.The executive order put an indefinite halt to citizens of Syria, a country racked by civil war and an immense refugee crisis, entering the United States. It suspended immigration for 90 days from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. It also suspended the nation’s program for admitting refugees from anywhere in the world for 120 days, while the government comes up with a stricter process for vetting them, but allowed for exceptions for persecuted religious minorities, like Christians in Muslim countries.Mr. Trump said the moves were needed to protect the United States from infiltration by “radical Islamic terrorists.” Mr. Ryan released a statement saying, “President Trump is right to make sure we are doing everything possible to know exactly who is entering our country.”Many other leading congressional Republicans did not make statements on the matter, including Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader.By Saturday afternoon, members of Congress were hearing from constituents whose friends or relatives were detained at airports.Two Republicans who did not support Mr. Trump’s candidacy, Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska and Representative Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania, criticized Mr. Trump’s order. Mr. Sasse called it overly broad, saying that it risks playing into the hands of jihadist groups that portray the United States as anti-Muslim.Mr. Dent said he was awakened by his college-aged son, whose Syrian-American friend had six family members being held at Philadelphia’s airport on Saturday morning, though they had valid documents to enter the country. The congressman said that despite his attempts to intervene with government officials, the family was placed on a flight bound for Qatar.“This is ridiculous,” he said. “The order was rushed through without any nuances toward immigration policy, and this can be life or death for some people.”The response from Democrats was scathing. “This administration has mistaken cruelty for strength and prejudice for strategy,” said Nancy Pelosi, the Democratic House minority leader. On Twitter, Senator Chris Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut, wrote, “To my colleagues: don’t ever again lecture me on American moral leadership if you chose to be silent today.”The reaction was also largely negative from leaders of Silicon Valley, which relies heavily on employees from abroad, and has many companies founded by immigrants or their children. A Google representative said, “We’re concerned about the impact of this order and any proposals that could impose restrictions on Googlers and their families, or that could create barriers to bringing great talent to the U.S.”Google’s chief executive, Sundar Pichai, a naturalized United States citizen who was born in India, sent a memo to the company’s workers saying that as many as 187 of its employees were affected.In a note to his employees, Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, said, “Apple would not exist without immigration, let alone thrive and innovate the way we do.” Mr. Trump’s order, he said, “is not a policy we support.”Facebook’s founder, Mark Zuckerberg, wrote on the site that the nation should “keep our doors open to refugees and those who need help.”Some colleges and universities had urged students who might be affected by Mr. Trump’s policies to return to the United States before Inauguration Day if they were abroad, or to remain in the country if they were already here.The seven countries covered by the temporary ban have about 13,000 citizens who are college or graduate students in the United States, said the American Council on Education. The group said it was unclear how many were stuck abroad. “It is clearly up to the federal government to decide how to safeguard our nation, but at the same time, it is in America’s interest to remain the destination of choice for the world’s students and scholars,” said Terry W. Hartle, the group’s executive vice president.The president’s action poses a particular challenge to Christian leaders whose followers have largely supported Mr. Trump, but whose organizations are among the most active on behalf of refugees.Jen Smyers, director of policy and advocacy for the immigration and refugee program of Church World Service, said that the executive order was “akin to President Trump taking a wrecking ball to the Statue of Liberty.”As reports circulated about travelers being stopped upon arrival, protests broke out at several airports, including San Francisco International, O’Hare in Chicago, Dulles outside Washington and Kennedy in New York.By sundown the boisterous crowd shouting “Let them in!” at Kennedy’s Terminal 4 had spread along the parking apron, the ramp to the elevator and on three floors of the adjoining parking deck. Airport officials briefly closed the shuttle train to Kennedy before Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, in a show of solidarity with protesters, ordered it reopened.One of the protesters, Jacki Esposito, an immigration lawyer from Brooklyn, said of the officials deciding the refugees’ fate: “We want to let them know we are watching.”
President Trump’s ban on visitors from seven predominantly Muslim nations could have a wide impact on international sports, including jeopardizing a warm relationship between the United States and Iran in wrestling competitions and threatening the chances of Los Angeles hosting the 2024 Summer Olympics and of the United States securing soccer’s 2026 World Cup.On Saturday, sports officials struggled to understand the implications of Mr. Trump’s executive order, including the question of whether athletes from the targeted nations could enter the United States to compete, especially in the initial 90-day period of the ban.“We are working closely with the administration to understand the new rules and how we best navigate them as it pertains to visiting athletes,” Patrick Sandusky, a spokesman for the United States Olympic Committee, said in an email. “We know they are supportive of the Olympic movement and our bid and believe we will have a good working relationship with them to ensure our success in hosting and attending events.”At least one International Olympic Committee delegate criticized Mr. Trump’s decision. The delegate, Richard Peterkin of St. Lucia, said Saturday that he considered the executive order “very, very disappointing.”He also called the United States a “haven” for many athletes hoping to train outside their home countries.“Most of our athletes from St. Lucia train in the States,” Mr. Peterkin said. “We don’t have an issue because we’re not on that list of seven, but if we were — there go hopes and dreams.”On Saturday evening, a federal judge blocked part of the executive order, but that decision appeared unrelated to the elements of the ban that troubled sports officials.The most immediate effect may come in wrestling, given that one of the nations affected by Mr. Trump’s ban is Iran, which has long had a congenial relationship with the United States in that sport. Iran said on Saturday that it would stop American citizens from entering the country, in retaliation for Mr. Trump’s order.The United States freestyle wrestling team is scheduled to participate in a World Cup competition in Iran on Feb. 8. Steve Fraser, the chief fund-raiser for U.S.A. Wrestling and a 1984 Greco-Roman Olympic champion, said on Saturday that the president of Iran’s wrestling federation was scheduled to meet this weekend with government officials there in an attempt to make sure the Americans would still be invited to the meet.“There’s some nervousness by us that the Iranian government might say, ‘We can’t get visas to go there, so no Americans can come here, either,’” Mr. Fraser said.While Olympic boycotts have resulted from tense political differences between nations, opposing countries have also long found common ground on playing fields, on the track and in sports arenas. One of the most celebrated examples is the so-called Ping-Pong diplomacy that helped foster the relationship between the United States and China in the 1970s.In wrestling, the United States, Iran, Cuba and Russia banded together in 2013 to persuade the I.O.C. to keep the sport in the Summer Games. American wrestlers and officials are warmly welcomed in Iran, and Iranian wrestlers compete regularly in the United States. They may be invited to meets in May in New York and in June in Los Angeles, Mr. Fraser said. There is uncertainty now, however, about whether they would be granted P1 visas, commonly known as sports visas, to compete.In 2014, Christina Kelley, the chief international ambassador for U.S.A. Wrestling, became one of the few women allowed into a wrestling arena in Iran since the 1979 Islamic Revolution. She said on Saturday that she was frustrated by Mr. Trump’s decision.“I don’t think our current president has any clue what the State Department and what sports diplomats and cultural exchanges do for our country and for the safety of our people around the world,” Ms. Kelley said.The ban on visitors from the seven nations — Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen — comes at a delicate time for the U.S.O.C. Los Angeles is seeking to host the 2024 Summer Games, and it will learn in September whether it, Paris or Budapest will get the Games.(There is some speculation that the I.O.C. will award the 2024 Games to Paris and the 2028 Games to Los Angeles, but the U.S.O.C. remains committed to the bid for the 2024 Games.)David Wallechinsky, an American member of the I.O.C.’s cultural and heritage commission and the president of the International Society of Olympic Historians, said the election of Mr. Trump in November had hurt Los Angeles’s bid with I.O.C. delegates because Mr. Trump was perceived as being “anti-Muslim, anti-woman and anti-Latino.”“This is worse,” Mr. Wallechinsky said of the Muslim ban, adding, “I would consider it a blow to the Los Angeles bid — not fatal but a blow.”At a meeting at the I.O.C.’s headquarters in Lausanne, Switzerland, several days after the American presidential election, Mr. Wallechinsky was asked repeatedly, “What is wrong with your country?” he said.He said he sought to assure I.O.C. officials by explaining that three-quarters of the voters in Los Angeles had voted against Mr. Trump, describing the city to them as a “a multicultural, Trump-free zone.”The United States is expected to bid to host the world’s other major sporting event, the World Cup, in 2026. In June, Sunil Gulati, president of the United States Soccer Federation, told reporters that a Trump presidency could complicate an American bid, especially if it were a joint bid with Mexico, given Mr. Trump’s plans to build a wall across America’s southern border.“I think a co-hosted World Cup with Mexico would be trickier if Secretary Clinton isn’t in the White House,” Mr. Gulati said at the time, in a reference to Hillary Clinton, who lost the election to Mr. Trump.After Mr. Trump won the election, Mr. Gulati modified his remarks, saying, “It’s not going to dissuade us or persuade us to bid.” International perceptions of the Trump administration “matter, for sure,” Mr. Gulati said, “but I think those will be developed in the months to come.”U.S. Soccer said Saturday it would have no immediate comment as it examined Mr. Trump’s order.Many questions remained unanswered about the ability of a number of athletes to travel. Two N.B.A. players, Thon Maker and Luol Deng, were born in Sudan, one of the seven countries listed in Mr. Trump’s executive order. (Both, however, were born in Wau, now part of South Sudan, which gained its independence from Sudan in 2011.)Mr. Maker’s family fled Sudan when he was 5 and eventually settled in Australia. Mr. Maker, who plays for the Milwaukee Bucks, moved to the United States to play high school basketball in Louisiana, eventually moved to Canada and is an Australian citizen who holds a passport from that country. It was unclear how people with dual citizenship would be treated under the order.Mr. Deng, a forward for the Los Angeles Lakers, has lived in the United States for 17 years. His family fled to Egypt when he was 5 to escape the Sudanese civil war. Mr. Deng came to the United States when he was 14 and attended high school in New Jersey, and he later became a British citizen.The N.B.A. also holds an annual Basketball Without Borders camp, and it is expected to be held in New Orleans during the league’s All-Star weekend in February. While rosters have not been released, last year’s camp involved players from 25 countries, including Amir Reza Shah-Ravesh from Iran.Major League Soccer has two American-born players with familial ties to two of the nations facing bans. Steve Beitashour of Toronto has played for Iran’s national team, and Justin Meram of Columbus has played for Iraq. League officials were looking into the matter on Saturday.Mo Farah of Britain, who was born in Somalia and has won four Olympic gold medals on the track at 5,000 meters and 10,000 meters, is a Nike-sponsored athlete coached by Alberto Salazar.Early Sunday morning Mr. Farah’s Facebook page had a post that, among other things, said: “On 1st January this year, Her Majesty The Queen made me a Knight of the Realm. On 27th January, President Donald Trump seems to have made me an alien. I am a British citizen who has lived in America for the past six years - working hard, contributing to society, paying my taxes and bringing up our four children in the place they now call home. Now, me and many others like me are being told that we may not be welcome.”Abdi Abdirahman, a four-time Olympian for the United States who finished third in the 2016 New York City Marathon, was also born in Somalia, and the race regularly attracts runners from around the globe. The 2016 race featured three runners from Iran, nine from Syria and one from Sudan in the field of about 50,000 runners.“Our goal is always to recruit the world’s best and cleanest athletes, regardless of where they’re from,” Chris Weiller, a spokesman for New York Road Runners, which organizes the marathon, said in an email.Jackie Brock-Doyle, a spokeswoman for track and field’s world governing body, the International Association of Athletics Federations, said, “We clearly need to understand the implications of this new U.S. immigration policy and will be seeking assurances that it will not adversely affect” the sport’s world championships, scheduled to be held in Eugene, Ore., in 2021.Phil Andrews, the chief executive of U.S.A. Weightlifting, said officials were trying to figure out the impact of Mr. Trump’s ban on the world weight-lifting championships, scheduled for November in Anaheim, Calif., and on the American team’s participation at a competition in Iran.“Our view is that politics and sport should be separate,” Mr. Andrews said, stressing sports diplomacy among nations. “We sincerely hope to peacefully welcome these seven nations to Anaheim this November. It is unimaginable to be able to host a true world event without their participation.”
After President Trump signed two sweeping executive orders on immigration on Wednesday, most of the attention was on his plans to build a wall along the border with Mexico and to hold back money from “sanctuary cities.” But the most immediate effect may come from language about deportation priorities that is tucked into the border wall order. It offers an expansive definition of who is considered a criminal — a category of people Mr. Trump has said he would target for deportation. Immigration agents will now have wider latitude to enforce federal laws and are being encouraged to deport broad swaths of unauthorized immigrants.Here are some questions and answers about the changes:Each presidential administration must decide who it considers a priority for deportation. Mr. Trump’s order focuses on anyone who has been charged with a criminal offense, even if it has not led to a conviction. He also includes, according to language in the order, anyone who has “committed acts that constitute a chargeable criminal offense,” meaning anyone the authorities believe has broken any type of law — regardless of whether that person has been charged with a crime.Mr. Trump’s order also includes anyone who has engaged in “fraud or willful misrepresentation in connection with any official matter or application before a governmental agency,” a category that includes anyone who has used a false Social Security number to obtain a job, as many unauthorized immigrants do. Anyone who has received a final order to leave the country, but has not left, is also considered a priority.Finally, he allows the targeting of anyone who “in the judgment of an immigration officer” poses a risk to either public safety or national security. That gives immigration officers the broad authority they have been pressing for, and no longer requires them to receive a review from a supervisor before targeting individuals.The order defines criminal loosely, and includes anyone who has crossed the border illegally — which is a criminal misdemeanor. Anyone who has abused any public benefits program is also considered a criminal under the order.The Obama administration, which deported nearly 400,000 people per year during its first five years, initially included those convicted of minor offenses such as shoplifting. But it later changed its policy to target primarily those who had been convicted of serious crimes, were considered national security threats or were recent arrivals. By the end of President Barack Obama’s time in office, around 90 percent of the country’s 11 million undocumented immigrants were not considered a priority for deportation. According to the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan think tank, roughly 820,000 undocumented immigrants currently have a criminal record.It’s impossible to know how many people will be considered priorities for deportation under the new criteria. Mr. Trump’s executive order could affect any unauthorized immigrant who is not protected by Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, which the Obama administration put in place to give young people work permits and temporary relief from deportation. (Mr. Trump has not yet made clear whether he intends to keep that program.) Immigration lawyers have already raised concerns that people with no criminal history will be swept up by the large net the administration is casting.The president has the authority to decide who should be deported. But it is unclear whether the administration will be able to — or even try to — carry out deportations as expansively as suggested in the executive order’s language. First, in order to put the 15,000 additional immigration agents he wants in place around the country and along the border, Mr. Trump needs spending approval from Congress. Even then, additional detention centers would also be needed.The most significant hurdle is the tremendous backlog in the immigration courts. Even if immigration officials initiated thousands of deportations immediately, court dates for those immigrants would be at least a year and a half away. Some immigration experts have suggested that Mr. Trump will try to push for expedited removals, which could speed the process, and give immigrants less time to find legal representation.Mr. Trump is opening the door to deporting far more unauthorized immigrants than previous administrations. “This is the largest expansion of any president in terms of who is a priority for removal,” said Steve Yale-Loehr, a professor of immigration law at Cornell University. “Every administration has to prioritize who they will go after with their limited enforcement resources. This goes further than any other president. To make it simple: If someone is here illegally they are targets for removal.”
WASHINGTON — President Trump’s executive order on immigration is straining relations with the partner the United States needs most to reclaim the Islamic State’s stronghold in Mosul: the Iraqis.Iraqi officials were taken aback by the directive, which they learned about through the American news media because they had not been consulted first.The order blocks citizens from Iraq and six other predominantly Muslim countries from entering the United States for 90 days. That lumps Iraq together with Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen, nations with no strategic alliance with Washington.“The effect is that many Iraqis will feel that the United States does not want a long-term relationship with Iraq,” said Lukman Faily, who completed a three-year stint as Iraq’s ambassador to Washington in June. “We hope it is a blip. It makes it difficult for us to decipher what President Trump is up to with regard to Iraq.”Mr. Faily has been directly affected by the order. Though he holds dual British and Iraqi citizenship, he said information he had received from the American Embassy in Baghdad indicated that he would not be allowed to travel to the United States in the coming weeks to participate in a long-planned conference, he said in a telephone interview from Iraq.The edict followed inflammatory comments that Mr. Trump made during a visit to the C.I.A. this month, in which he said that the United States should have “kept” Iraq’s oil after the American-led invasion and might still have a chance to do so.More broadly, it clashes with a memo that Mr. Trump issued on Saturday calling on the Pentagon to submit a new plan for stepping up operations against the Islamic State, including by empowering “coalition partners.”With Iraq furnishing the ground forces for the coming assault on western Mosul, and with more than 5,000 American troops in the country, the political support of Baghdad is essential. But current and former American officials are worried that the directive will have a corrosive effect on American-Iraqi relations at a critical stage in the fighting.“My brothers in Iraq’s Army, who I proudly fought with, are fighting ISIS tonight,” Mark Hertling, a retired Army lieutenant general who led American forces in northern Iraq, wrote on Twitter. “The Iraqi govt is now winning. And we ban their citizens?”The order, which administration officials said was drafted without the input of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and Middle East experts at the State Department, has offended the Iraqis in several respects.During the Bush administration, the United States and Iraq signed a Strategic Framework Agreement, which calls for close diplomatic, economic and security ties and is still in effect.“If I were an Iraqi, I would be waving this signed agreement in the face of the current administration,” said Ryan C. Crocker, who negotiated the accord and served as the United States ambassador to Iraq under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama. “It is totally inconsistent.”Iraqis who are already skeptical about Washington have also seized on the order to stir up opposition against the United States. Moktada al-Sadr, the fiery cleric whom many Iraqi Shiites support, accused the United States of “arrogance.”“So get out U.S. citizens from Iraq before you expel communities from U.S.,” he said on Twitter.To contain the political damage, officials said a long-planned call between Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi of Iraq and Mr. Trump might be arranged for this week. Mr. Trump spoke on Sunday with King Salman of Saudi Arabia and with the crown prince of the United Arab Emirates, but neither Saudi Arabia nor the Emirates are covered by the new order.Iraqi officials who are close to the Americans worry that the Islamic State will exploit the policy in its propaganda to recruit new volunteers. As of early Sunday, the terrorist group had made no official pronouncement. However, individual members and supporters have been sharing the order and news articles about it.Yet another worry has been expressed by veterans, and even members of Mr. Trump’s own party: that the order will interrupt the flow of former Iraqi interpreters and cultural advisers who have worked closely with the Americans and have sought special visas to move to the United States for their own protection.“The people we need to accomplish the mission are nervous, and rightly so, that our country is going to turn our backs on them,” said Steve Miska, a retired Army colonel, who spent 40 months and three deployments in Iraq.Senators John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, Republicans who have been strongly supportive of the military, expressed concern that a strict application of the order might even block Iraqi pilots from coming to the United States for training.“This executive order bans Iraqi pilots from coming to military bases in Arizona to fight our common enemies,” they wrote in a statement issued Sunday.The more fundamental question is whether the White House can balance the fulfillment of a campaign promise to carry out “extreme vetting” of citizens from Muslim countries with the need to maintain strong ties with Muslim partners in its fight against the Islamic State. The air bases that the United States uses to bomb the group are all in Turkey or Arab countries, as are American troops.“The president’s actions on refugees and immigration are certain to backfire,” said Matthew G. Olsen, a former director of the National Counterterrorism Center. “The policies validate the terrorists’ claim that we are at war with Islam, and will alienate our Middle East allies and isolate American Muslims here at home.”
Three days after President Trump signed an executive order sharply curtailing immigration and the rights of refugees, questions about its reach and legality are increasingly focusing on the order’s uncertainty.By circumventing normal practices for formulating policies and their execution, the White House has created still-swirling confusion about whom the order targets and how it will be enforced. There is also ambiguity about the legality of the order, which the White House calls extreme vetting but which critics call a Muslim ban, and about how court challenges, already underway, will proceed.For many abroad, the ban raised questions about how an American president could undertake such an action suddenly and unilaterally, seemingly unfettered by checks and balances. The order’s apparent breaches with usual protocol over how policy is made, and potentially with the law, are already creating major problems in its enforcement.The order targets three groups: refugees from any country, who are blocked from entering the United States for the next 120 days; refugees from Syria, who are barred indefinitely; and citizens from seven Muslim-majority countries, who are barred from entering the United States for at least 90 days. Those countries are Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.But what all that means in practice is not clear, which has led to disorder in its application.The third measure has created the most uncertainty. The Department of Homeland Security initially said that the order barred even legal permanent residents who hold green cards.On Sunday, Reince Priebus, the White House chief of staff, appeared to reverse that, but the order still appears to affect foreign students, workers and other visa holders from the targeted countries.The order clarifies little on enforcement, leaving customs and border officials appearing to improvise.Several federal courts have already prohibited deportations under the ban and have ordered that individuals detained at airports or at the border have access to lawyers. But there have been reports of customs and border officials refusing to comply.This appears to set up a potential conflict between the branches of government — a worrying possibility, as the separation of powers is a cornerstone of American democracy. Should the judicial branch be blocked from performing its role as a check on the executive, it would lead to a constitutional crisis. It is unclear how Mr. Trump would respond to such a crisis or how it would resolve.The president has broad powers to regulate and restrict immigration without congressional approval, though this is limited by certain constitutional protections that could apply.Mr. Trump broke radically in this case with long-held norms of how executive power is exercised. Ordinarily, a president drafts policy changes by consulting, over a period of weeks or months, with federal agencies and other stakeholders in and outside the government.Those practices are meant to vet a policy for its legality and ability to be enforced, as well as for unforeseen consequences. The process also lets agencies begin planning how they will execute the policy and allows those affected to prepare.The administration appears to have largely skipped that process, drafting this and other recent orders within a small circle of political advisers. Relevant agencies and the National Security Council were granted little or no review over the immigration order before it was signed.There is no law mandating such an internal review. But, by forgoing it, the administration circumvented an important internal check on executive power, while creating the impression that it is making critical national policy in slapdash fashion.The result has been to leave the vast federal bureaucracy badly prepared to interpret and enforce the sweeping proscriptions. The outcome was confusion at the borders, as Customs and Border Protection officials struggled to enforce the order.But internal vetting is about more than practicalities and legalities; it is also meant to protect the core values and interests of the United States. More voices are emerging to challenge the order on those grounds, a concern that will probably remain even if the administration amends the order to pass legal muster.For judges to issue emergency stays, like those that have already emerged, they must determine that there is a high likelihood that the legal challenge will succeed — meaning that they think the ban is probably legally deficient, at least when applied to people who have already reached the United States and are holding valid papers.T. Alexander Aleinikoff, a former general counsel to the Immigration and Naturalization Service and a former deputy commissioner of the United Nations refugee agency, said that the ban could conflict with both federal and constitutional law.The refugee convention, a United Nations treaty that is incorporated into United States law, prohibits discrimination against refugees on the basis of religion. The Immigration and Nationality Act also prohibits such discrimination in the issuance of visas.“There is also the constitutional argument that this is religious discrimination,” Professor Aleinikoff added.The executive order’s vague, confusing language — which Professor Aleinikoff, a leading expert in immigration law, struggled to interpret with any certainty — could also leave the order open to arguments that it violates constitutional due process protections.“There really are no instructions in here to the officers,” he said, adding that the order’s lack of clarity made it “arbitrary” and, in more practical terms, “unworkable.”However, the president has broad legal authority to restrict immigration. Under the Immigration and Nationality Act, he can restrict any class of aliens he deems “detrimental to the interests of the United States” without needing legislation or congressional approval.But that is usually applied more narrowly, and it is unclear whether it can be applied to religious groups.The courts have not directly decided whether the law grants the president the power to bar a religious group, such as Muslims, or if that would be a violation of the Constitution.Federal courts may be reluctant to rule on such a broad constitutional question, Professor Aleinikoff said. They may be more willing to limit the ban or to strike it down on narrower grounds, such as a lack of regulations to put it into effect.Narrower challenges could lead the White House to introduce a new order that is more carefully tailored to pass legal muster. Overturning the order outright would most likely require establishing that it is a ban on Muslims, which the White House has denied.The order does not explicitly target Muslims but rather nationals of seven Muslim-majority countries, which also contain non-Muslim minorities.However, there is growing suspicion that the order grew out of Mr. Trump’s campaign promise of, as he put it in a December 2015 statement, “a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country’s representatives can figure out what is going on.”Critics have pointed out that, since 2001, no foreign-born citizens from the countries targeted by the order have committed terrorist attacks in the United States. The Sept. 11 hijackers originated from countries not covered by the ban. And Mr. Trump has promised exceptions for Christians from the targeted countries.Rudolph W. Giuliani, a former New York City mayor and adviser to the Trump campaign, told Fox News on Saturday that he had helped modify Mr. Trump’s campaign proposal to temporarily bar Muslims into the current order as “the right way to do it legally.”The question of legality matters for civic and political reasons, too. Critics across faith communities, rights groups and legal groups have charged that the order effectively targets Muslims and is therefore both illegal and fundamentally un-American.The order and its component parts could eventually be tweaked to withstand judicial review. But it has already stirred debate about whether Mr. Trump’s approach to immigration breaks from long-held American values of pluralism and tolerance.Even the potential appearance of enforcing federal discrimination against minorities evokes memories of some of the darkest points in American history, such as the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act that barred Chinese laborers as racially undesirable and the internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II.When Mr. Trump first proposed a Muslim ban in 2015, it was condemned almost universally, including by fellow Republicans. Mike Pence, who is now the vice president, wrote on Twitter at the time, “Calls to ban Muslims from entering the U.S. are offensive and unconstitutional.”Now that Mr. Trump is president, a number of Republican leaders are supporting the order, and many others have declined to challenge it. That, in turn, raises questions about whether American political norms could shift — or already have — to allow for policies that were considered unthinkable only a year ago.
Nominees for secretary of education have typically breezed through confirmation by the Senate with bipartisan approval.But Betsy DeVos, President-elect Donald J. Trump’s choice for the post, is no typical nominee. She is a billionaire with a complex web of financial investments, including in companies that stand to win or lose from the department she would oversee. She has been an aggressive force in politics for years, as a prominent Republican donor and as a supporter of steering public dollars to private schools.Her wealth and her politics seem likely to make her confirmation hearing unusually contentious, and possibly drawn out.The hearing, which was originally scheduled for Wednesday of this week, was postponed until Tuesday after Democrats complained she had not completed an agreement with the independent Office of Government Ethics that outlined a plan to deal with potential conflicts of interest. The ethics office has said it has not completed its review of Ms. DeVos, which is required before the office can make any agreement. A spokesman for Ms. DeVos said she had responded to a first round of questions from the office last weekend.On Thursday, Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the ranking Democrat on the committee that will hold the hearing, said she and Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the panel’s Republican chairman, “have some concerns about missing information” on the financial disclosure forms that Ms. DeVos has filed with the Senate. Ms. Murray would not specify what they were looking for, because those disclosures are not public, but said they had asked Ms. DeVos for additional information. Ms. Murray said she had “pushed very hard” not to hold the hearing until Ms. DeVos had completed her agreement with the ethics office.“This is a candidate with extremely complicated financial dealings,” the senator said. “We have to know, if there are conflicts of interests, how those are going to be resolved. If we don’t have that, it’s incumbent on all of us to say we cannot vote for that.”Some Republican committee leaders, including Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, who is chairwoman of the Energy and Natural Resources Committee, have said they will hew to a tradition of not holding hearings until the ethics office signs off on the nominee.But a spokeswoman for Mr. Alexander said his panel — the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee — had “no rules” about a need for an ethics review, and that the chairman intended to hold the hearing on Tuesday regardless.Mr. Alexander also said he would limit senators on the panel — 12 Republicans and 11 Democrats — to five minutes of questions each, after opening statements by him and Ms. Murray.His office noted that Rod Paige, President George W. Bush’s first education secretary, had a hearing eight days before his ethics review was complete. But Mr. Paige, a school superintendent when he was nominated, did not have nearly the same wealth or financial investments as Ms. DeVos.Mr. Alexander’s office said the committee would not hold a vote on Ms. DeVos’s nomination until her ethics review was complete.That could take awhile. In a letter to Ms. Murray about the DeVos nomination, the ethics office said on Monday that “multiple rounds of questions and revisions are usually needed before a report can be finalized,” because of the complexity of financial disclosure rules. And some nominees “find it difficult to untangle” their investments quickly. So the vetting process “can take weeks,” the office wrote, “and, in the case of extremely wealthy individuals, sometimes months.”Democrats have repeatedly noted that Penny Pritzker, a billionaire real estate entrepreneur who became the commerce secretary during President Obama’s second term, took six months to complete her ethics agreement.Ms. DeVos and her husband have a larger fortune, estimated at $5 billion. The Windquest Group, their investment firm, has holdings in many companies that invest in other interests such as Social Finance, which refinances student loans — a potential conflict, given the federal government is the biggest student lender.Ms. DeVos also lists herself as a director of the RDV Corporation, which similarly invests in companies with education products, including digital textbooks and online charter schools.Unlike most past secretaries, Ms. DeVos has never been an educator or overseen a state education agency. She did not attend public schools, or send her children to them.Her primary involvement in education has been as a benefactor and board member for groups that advocate steering taxpayer dollars away from public schools in the form of vouchers to help families attend private and religious schools.In her home state, Michigan, she pushed and defended a charter school law that is lax compared with policies in other states. She consistently fought legislation that would stop failing charter schools from expanding, and argued to shut down the troubled Detroit public school system and use the money saved to send students to charters or private schools.A Republican group pushing for Ms. DeVos’s confirmation, America Rising Squared, has flooded reporters with testimonials from supporters and politicians who say Ms. DeVos is in line with “mainstream” Americans in her support of school choice. That group, and one calling itself Friends of Betsy DeVos, insist that the opposition to her nomination is funded by teachers’ unions that want to deny poor families a way out of failing schools.But school choice means different things to different people. Many educators and groups that support charter schools — which are public — do not support vouchers, which steer public money away from public schools by giving families money to spend on private school tuition.So teachers’ unions have opposed her nomination, but so, too, have organizations that have fought unions.The main association of charter schools in Massachusetts, for example, which is generally considered to have the nation’s best charters, sent a letter to the state’s senior senator, Elizabeth Warren, who sits on the committee that will hold the DeVos hearing. The letter expressed concern about Ms. DeVos’s support for vouchers and loose accountability in Michigan, which it said would “reduce the quality of charter schools across the country.”Mr. Trump has promised to steer $20 billion in federal education funds to vouchers, and Shavar Jeffries, the president of Democrats for Education Reform, a pro-charter organization, said he was worried that the Department of Education would take the money from Title I funds, which go to public schools serving the poorest students.Other groups have noted Ms. DeVos’s millions of dollars in political contributions to Republican senators who will vote on her nomination, insisting that they recuse themselves from any vote on her. Her supporters have countered that Democrats who receive money from teachers’ unions should recuse themselves, as well.
Representative Tom Price of Georgia, President Trump’s choice for secretary of Health and Human Services, has been assailed by Democrats in recent weeks over his investment in health care companies at the same time that he pushed legislation that could have benefited those businesses.Democrats have called for investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the House’s Office of Congressional Ethics, into whether Mr. Price violated insider trading laws or conflict of interest rules. He has said he did nothing wrong.As Mr. Price awaits a confirmation vote, which could come next week, here is what we know about his investments, and whether his activities could have broken any laws or ethics rules.Which of Mr. Price’s stock holdings have come under scrutiny?Mr. Price, an orthopedic surgeon by training, has invested more than $300,000 in health care stocks — as varied as big drug companies like Pfizer and Eli Lilly and health insurers like Aetna — in recent years. During that time, he has been active in shaping health care legislation as a member of the House Ways and Means Committee’s subcommittee on health.In one example, Mr. Price bought stock in Zimmer Biomet, a company that makes orthopedic implants, shortly before he introduced legislation that could have protected the company from financial losses because of new federal regulation.His investment in a tiny Australian company, Innate Immunotherapeutics, was singled out for scrutiny, especially his participation in an offering of discounted stock that was limited to “sophisticated U.S. investors.” Mr. Price has said he learned of the company from Representative Chris Collins, Republican of New York, and Mr. Trump’s congressional liaison during the presidential transition. Mr. Collins serves on the company’s board of directors and is its top shareholder.While Mr. Price has said nearly all of his trades were made by a broker and that he did not tell her what to invest, he said he personally chose to invest in Innate. Representatives for Mr. Price have said that he set up a separate account to invest in the company, since his existing accounts did not permit the trading of penny stocks, which the company was at the time he invested.Why are senators calling for an investigation?Democrats have called for an investigation into whether Mr. Price violated what is known as the Stock Act, which bans members of Congress from insider trading.They are also asking for an inquiry into the involvement of Mr. Price and Mr. Collins in Innate, which has said that it plans to pursue approval with the Food and Drug Administration for a drug it is developing to treat multiple sclerosis. Democrats say they want to know whether Mr. Collins shared with Mr. Price any nonpublic, material information that led him to invest.Senators have also raised questions about the special stock offering, known as a private placement. Many of the participants were in Mr. Collins’s social and professional circles.What are the chances that Mr. Price violated insider trading laws?Experts in insider trading and legal ethics said that they had not seen evidence that any laws were broken but more information was needed before they could make a final judgment.The S.E.C. typically focuses on the timing of trades and the communication between the parties.Insider traders often take advantage of a sharp spike in a stock price, followed by at least one of the parties selling their investment to profit. There is no evidence that this occurred here, said Donald C. Langevoort, a professor at Georgetown University Law Center. In the case of Innate Immunotherapeutics, the stock has risen steadily since Mr. Price last invested over the summer, and shares jumped in the past month in the wake of media reports about his involvement.The recent stock rise prompted the Australian stock exchange this week to ask Innate to explain why its share price had risen so sharply, to $1.83 on Jan. 25, from 83 Australian cents in late December. The company responded that the recent news reports caused the price to rise.Others said the act of merely introducing legislation — which is far from a guarantee that it will pass — is unlikely to move a company’s stock significantly.“I don’t think you’re going to get rich trading on the market impact of an announcement that you introduced legislation,” said Jill E. Fisch, a professor of law at the University of Pennsylvania Law School.Still, some said the questions about Mr. Price’s trades show why members of Congress should not invest in stocks in the first place. As Republicans have noted, some Democrats on the committees that are vetting Mr. Price, including Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island, also trade in health care stocks.“How can the public have confidence in the integrity of legislation if the person introducing it has invested in a company that would benefit?” said Stephen Gillers, a professor of legal ethics at the New York University School of Law.What is the deal with that “private placement”?Experts said private placements, such as the one Mr. Price took part in, are commonplace. The companies offer the stock at a discount to entice investors to participate, and can be targeted to small groups of people — even to a single investor, as was the case in 2008, when Goldman Sachs arranged a private placement with Warren Buffett.Participation in a private placement may raise questions about exclusive access, but it is unlikely for such an offering to lead to insider trading. That is because in private placements, it is the company that is selling the stock. A person with insider knowledge, therefore, would not be able to defraud the company, which presumably has access to the same nonpublic information.But Mr. Langevoort said private placements can raise questions if the placement is offered at a steep discount to a public official, and if the offering was intended to influence that person. “It doesn’t mean that they don’t have issues, it’s just that the issues are different,” he said, while noting there is no evidence that is what was happening in the case of Innate.What about Representative Collins and his ties to Innate Immunotherapeutics?Mr. Collins’s involvement with a small, speculative company is indeed odd, some of the experts said.Innate is a tiny biotechnology company that is traded on the Australian stock exchange and has no approved drugs. The company has run out of money more than once and nearly closed its doors.But Mr. Collins has remained one of its biggest boosters. He has been an investor in the company since 2005.Several of Mr. Collins’s friends and associates are also investors, including two of his adult children, his chief of staff, and several donors.In an interview this week with Wolf Blitzer of CNN, Mr. Collins said he frequently mentioned the company because he was proud of it.“I talk about it all the time, just as you would talk about your children,” he said.Some ethics experts have said this boosterism, coming from an elected official, is problematic, because people who seek to influence him could buy stock in the company as a way of currying favor.“The focus on this company is beyond curious,” Mr. Gillers said, while noting there was still no way to tell whether wrongdoing occurred. “Right now it’s weird, but we don’t know why it’s weird.”
WASHINGTON — Donald J. Trump said during the campaign that he had a secret plan for the fight against the Islamic State. Eight days into his presidency, he seems to have revealed a small part of it.ISIL is out. ISIS is in.An executive memorandum that Mr. Trump signed on Saturday afternoon in the Oval Office repeatedly referred to the Islamic State as ISIS — not ISIL, as President Barack Obama and the rest of the federal government had called the terrorist group since 2014.“This is the plan to defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, in other words, ISIS,” Mr. Trump said as he signed the memorandum, which called on the Pentagon to devise a “comprehensive plan” within 30 days.The White House also used the name ISIS in summaries of the calls Mr. Trump had on Saturday with the Russian and French presidents.As the terrorist group rose to prominence during Mr. Obama’s second term, American intelligence agencies began referring to it as ISIL — for the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, a translation from Arabic — and Mr. Obama began using the term.Like Mr. Obama, most senior officials pronounced it Eye-sul. Some just said the letters. And occasionally, a government official would refer to it as Iss-ull.The Levant denotes an area larger than Syria, including Lebanon, Jordan and Israel. Although the news media has widely used the term ISIS — with its sinister sibilance — the federal government stayed with ISIL.Conspiracy theories have been floated in the conservative media about why Mr. Obama used the term. Rush Limbaugh said in 2015 that Mr. Obama had employed the acronym as a way of delegitimizing Israel.“Oh, and, by the way, just to reiterate something: ISIS versus ISIL,” he said. “The Levant includes Israel, includes much of the eastern Mediterranean shoreline. By using the term ISIL, it is meant to delegitimize Israel. It is meant to include Israel in the Levant, which would make it Palestine. I’m telling you, there’s a reason Obama does this, and his audience is not us.”A day before Mr. Limbaugh’s comments, Mr. Trump complained about Mr. Obama’s use of ISIL as he attacked Mr. Obama’s efforts to defeat the group. As Mr. Trump offered a running commentary on Twitter of Mr. Obama’s address after the attacks in San Bernardino, Calif., Mr. Trump harped on Mr. Obama’s use of the term.As recently as last May, Mr. Trump again brought up the issue, saying in an interview with Bloomberg Politics: “The president of the United States always says ‘ISIL.’ Everyone else says ‘ISIS.’ And I actually think he does it to bother people.”Mr. Trump’s Pentagon and State Department apparently have not gotten the memo that there is a new acronym in town.In a statement released on Friday by the State Department that included a travel warning about Libya, the department said that “ISIL claimed responsibility for two vehicle-borne improvised explosive devices in Tripoli in September 2016.”And in a statement released on Thursday by the Pentagon spokesman, Capt. Jeff Davis, that summarized a call between Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and the French defense minister, Jean-Yves Le Drian, Captain Davis said that “the secretary discussed the importance of the NATO alliance and counter-ISIL operations, and thanked Minister Le Drian for his country’s continued commitment to both.”
WASHINGTON — Six months ago, Jim Mattis stood at a lectern at the Hoover Institution, a conservative think tank at Stanford University, and sharply criticized Donald J. Trump’s campaign proposal for a ban on Muslim immigration, saying that such a move would distress American allies around the world.“This kind of thing is causing us great damage right now, and it’s sending shock waves through the international system,” Mr. Mattis said.On Friday, in a Pentagon room dedicated to men and women who have received the country’s highest military decoration, the Medal of Honor, Mr. Mattis, now the country’s defense secretary, stood behind his new commander in chief, President Trump, as he signed an executive order on immigration. The order suspended entry of all refugees to the United States for 120 days, barred Syrian refugees indefinitely and blocked entry for 90 days for citizens of seven predominantly Muslim countries. It also allows Christians to be granted priority over Muslims.For Mr. Mattis, it was an uncomfortable end to a tumultuous first week as defense secretary that found him choosing which battles to fight and which to step away from.He won a huge one on Friday, when Mr. Trump, in a remarkable show of deference, said that he would let Mr. Mattis “override” his view that torture could be effective in interrogations. Mr. Mattis is a strong opponent of such techniques.But Mr. Mattis was also outflanked by the White House, which chose the Pentagon to unveil Mr. Trump’s executive order on immigration, a sharply divisive move in front of military leaders who view themselves as apolitical.In a building where uniformed men and women work alongside civilian officials, several rank-and-file workers expressed outrage that Mr. Trump would use the Defense Department, home to a military that includes people of many faiths, including Islam, to announce that he was blocking visa applicants from Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen.“Using the military as a backdrop for politically charged activities is bad for the military,” said Kori Schake, a Hoover Institution fellow who edited the new book “Warriors and Citizens: American Views of Our Military” with Mr. Mattis. She added that associating the military with “unconstitutional policies is especially damaging, since our military take their oath to the Constitution, not to the president.”The president cited the Sept. 11 attacks in his decision to issue the immigration restrictions, which he cast in national security terms. “We will never forget the lessons of 9/11,” he said, nor the people “who lost their lives at the Pentagon.”But none of the 19 terrorists who were on the planes that crashed into the World Trade Center and the Pentagon and in Shanksville, Pa., were from any of the countries on Mr. Trump’s visa ban list.Instead, Iraq, where the American military is fighting with Iraqi security forces against the Islamic State, is among the countries on the list. Military officials have repeatedly called the nation an American ally.“After all the money and lives spent in Iraq and Afghanistan, the Pentagon knows better than anyone that terrorism is a problem of a small number of enemies embedded in a population of people you need to win over,” said Jon B. Alterman, director of the Middle East Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. “I don’t see the part of this that’s meant to win over anyone.”Two people close to Mr. Mattis, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because they said they were wary of undercutting him, said he was still sharply opposed to the Muslim ban. But he spent this week battling the White House on other issues, including the establishment of “safe zones” in Syria, something the Pentagon has long opposed because it would deepen American involvement in the war there, out of the executive order.Military officials sought to distance the Pentagon from the immigration ban, and focused instead on the second executive order that Mr. Trump signed at the Pentagon, which called for plans to improve military readiness. Mr. Mattis, standing behind Mr. Trump, took only the ceremonial pen that Mr. Trump used to sign the military readiness order. Mr. Trump gave the other one to Vice President Mike Pence.Afterward, the Defense Department put out a statement about Mr. Trump’s visit to the Pentagon that pointedly made no mention of the Muslim ban. “The secretary shares the president’s goal of ensuring our military leaders have the support they need to accelerate the campaign against ISIS, and to build combat readiness now and for the future,” Capt. Jeff Davis, the Pentagon spokesman, said in the statement.Last week, the Defense Department posted a message on Twitter about a former refugee who became a Marine. “From refugee to #Marine. @USMC Cpl Ali J. Mohammed takes the fight to the doorstep of those who cast his family out,” it read.A military official noted on Saturday that the American military, which uses translators and fixers in Iraq and Syria, two of the countries on the banned list, would find it harder to recruit, since the Pentagon has long offered the promise of refuge in America.“It’s very difficult for people to cooperate with the United States military when they feel humiliated by the United States,” said Vali Nasr, dean of the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University.“The Iraqi situation is the most grievous,” Mr. Nasr added. “We are fighting a war with the Iraqis, against ISIS. How can we fight with them when the message from the White House is discriminatory?”
Repeated comments from President Trump and his advisers about barring Muslims from entering the United States were at the heart of the decision on Monday by the acting attorney general, Sally Q. Yates, to refuse to defend the president’s executive order on immigration, senior officials involved said. Within hours of alerting Justice Department lawyers of her decision, the White House summarily fired her late Monday night.The firing capped three days of internal deliberations at the Justice Department. Like many others in the government, Ms. Yates, a holdover from the Obama administration, was caught by surprise Friday night by Mr. Trump’s executive order temporarily halting all refugees from entering the country and indefinitely blocking immigration or visits from seven Muslim countries.The Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel had reviewed the order and signed off on its legality. But Ms. Yates and her staff lawyers believed that the department had to consider the intent of the order, which she said appeared designed to single out people based on religion.Mr. Trump had campaigned on a promise to single out Muslims for immigration restrictions. One of his advisers, Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York, said in an interview that Mr. Trump wanted a Muslim ban but needed “the right way to do it legally.” Mr. Trump said in a later interview with the Christian Broadcasting Network that Christian refugees would be given priority for entry visas to the United States.In meetings on Monday, some lawyers believed the department should defend the order, as it normally does. Others disagreed. Ms. Yates considered resigning, the officials said, but concluded that doing so would leave the decision to whomever succeeded her, even if in a temporary capacity.So on Monday evening, she issued a stinging rebuke of the president and ordered government lawyers not to defend the ban in court, where it is being contested.“I am not convinced that the defense of the executive order is consistent with these responsibilities, nor am I convinced that the executive order is lawful,” Ms. Yates wrote in a letter to lawyers at the Justice Department, referring to her obligations as acting attorney general.Ms. Yates, who was deputy attorney general for the last year and a half of the Obama administration, was running the department temporarily until the Senate could confirm a replacement. Her order was in effect for only a matter of hours before a White House courier arrived at the Justice Department with a handwritten letter.“Dear Deputy Attorney General Yates,” the letter said. “I am informing you that the president has removed you from the office of Deputy Attorney General of the United States.” It was signed by John DeStefano, an assistant to Mr. Trump.Democrats hailed her as a hero. But while Ms. Yates was a reliably liberal voice on issues of civil rights, criminal justice and sentencing, she spent decades working as a career prosecutor in Atlanta under administrations from both parties. She prosecuted Eric Rudolph, known as the Olympic Park bomber, and was viewed as an aggressive white-collar prosecutor. Senator Johnny Isakson, Republican of Georgia, introduced her at her confirmation hearing in 2015.“She will be a hero of the American people, a hero of what’s right,” Mr. Isakson said at the time. “She’ll call them like she sees them, and she will be fair, and she will be just.”At those hearings, Republicans were furious about former President Barack Obama’s order liberalizing immigration policy and questioned Ms. Yates about whether she would be willing to stand up to the president. Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama and Mr. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, was particularly pointed in his questioning.“If the views the president wants to execute are unlawful, should the attorney general or the deputy attorney general say ‘No?’” Mr. Sessions asked.“I believe the attorney general or deputy attorney general has an obligation to follow the law and Constitution and give their independent legal advice to the president,” Ms. Yates replied.As deputy attorney general, Ms. Yates was the department’s leading voice on issues of clemency and sentencing reform and led the push for prosecutors to bring charges against individual executives involved in corporate wrongdoing.Ms. Yates and Attorney General Loretta E. Lynch earned the ire of Democrats — including many in the department — for not intervening and prohibiting the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, from sending a letter to Congress in the final days of the presidential campaign. The letter raised the prospect of new and potentially damaging evidence against Hillary Clinton related to an investigation that had been closed. Nothing came of the new evidence, and Mrs. Clinton’s team says the letter cost her the presidency.Former Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., a Democrat, posted a photograph of Ms. Yates on Twitter late Monday and said, “This is what skill, judgment and courage look like.”Republicans disagreed, including George J. Terwilliger III, a former deputy attorney general who, like Ms. Yates, briefly served as acting attorney general. “In a legal dispute in our adversary system concerning an executive order, the attorney general’s and the Justice Department’s responsibility is to be an advocate for the president’s position,” he said.He said Ms. Yates’s actions “makes her and the Justice Department look blatantly political.”
LONDON — America’s traditional allies are on the lookout for new friends.They have heard the mantra “America First” from the new president, divining a Trump doctrine: global cooperation last. Europeans have taken note of Mr. Trump’s denigration of the European Union and his apparent esteem for the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin. In Asia and Latin America, leaders have absorbed the deepening possibility that Mr. Trump will deliver on threats to impose punitive tariffs on Mexican and Chinese imports, provoking a trade war that will damage economic growth and eliminate jobs around the world.Some allies are shifting focus to other potential partners for new sources of trade and investment, relationships that could influence political, diplomatic and military ties. Many are looking to China, which has adroitly capitalized on a leadership vacuum in world affairs by offering itself — ironies notwithstanding — as a champion for global engagement.“We’ve always said that America is our best friend,” Jeroen Dijsselbloem, president of the Eurogroup — comprising finance ministers from countries sharing the euro currency — said in an interview with The New York Times on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, this month. “If that’s no longer the case, if that’s what we need to understand from Donald Trump, then of course Europe will look for new friends.”“China is a very strong candidate for that,” he added. “The Chinese involvement in Europe in terms of investment is already very high and expanding. If you push away your friends, you mustn’t be surprised if the friends start looking for new friends.”On Wednesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany spoke by telephone with Premier Li Keqiang of China. “The two spoke in favor of free trade and a stable world trade order,” a German government spokesman later said in a written statement.The swift reassessment of trade relations — a realm in which Mr. Trump is directly threatening the order that has prevailed since the end of World War II — only amplifies the potential for a shake-up of the broader geopolitical framework.Mr. Trump has already criticized NATO as obsolete while demanding that member states pay more, calling into question the alliance that has maintained security across much of Europe for more than six decades. He has provoked fears of a clash with China beyond issues of commerce by taking a congratulatory call from the president of Taiwan, the self-governing island that Beijing claims as part of its territory. In shutting American borders to people from predominantly Muslim countries, Mr. Trump risks inflaming tensions with Middle Eastern nations while widening a void with democratic allies over basic values.Through the fractious campaign, weary sophisticates dismissed the extreme talk from the Trump camp as political bluster. Even if he won, he would never follow through on his threats, particularly in trade where his business sensibilities would prevail.But that conventional wisdom looks to be crumbling. First, Mr. Trump delivered on a promise to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade agreement forged by the Obama administration in part as a counter to China’s growing influence.Then, on Thursday, his administration appeared to embrace a Republican proposal to impose a 20 percent tax on all imported goods while asserting the proceeds would pay for a wall along the Mexican border. Word of the tax emerged as President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico canceled a visit to Washington to protest the promised wall — resonating as the potential first salvo in a trade war.“I’m incredibly concerned that the Trump people mean what they say,” said Chad P. Bown, a trade expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. “One would hope that they are using this as a negotiating tactic. But even if you are, that’s an extraordinarily dangerous game to play, because, right now, the communication to the world is not flowing clearly.”The communication on Thursday came through Mr. Trump’s press secretary, Sean Spicer, who during the administration of George W. Bush, promoted the job-creating magic of free trade as a spokesman for the United States Trade Representative.Pressed to explain how Mr. Trump would force Mexico to pay for the wall, Mr. Spicer said an import tax would do the trick. He soon clarified the tax was merely one option on a crowded buffet table.At a news conference on Friday, Mr. Trump reported having had “a very good call” with the Mexican president. But he did not sound conciliatory. Mexico “has outnegotiated us and beat us to a pulp through our past leaders,” he said. “I’m not going to let that happen.”Within the business world, the prospect of substantial tariffs seems so damaging that many assume it will never happen.Three decades ago, Alan Russell, a former commercial airline pilot, set up the Tecma Group of Companies, which runs factory operations for multinationals in Mexico. Today, the company employs some 7,000 Mexican laborers, most of them in factories clustered around Ciudad Juárez. They make components for the automotive, electronics, aerospace and medical device industries.Mr. Trump’s words have provoked fear among the members of Mr. Russell’s work force. “They hear the administration is going to shut down Nafta and deport everyone, and it scares them,” he said, referring to the North American Free Trade Agreement.But in the end, he said, business will carry on.“In 31 years, I’ve been through rapid inflation, devaluations, three major recessions, the violence period and multiple presidential administrations, and every year trade has increased,” he said. “We’ve been through worse. Trade is like life itself. It will figure a way.”Most experts have similarly assumed the responsibilities of governance would temper Mr. Trump’s trade posture. Given that nearly one-third of all American trade is conducted with China and Mexico, a rupture risks severe economic damage.The three countries are intertwined in the global supply chain. China makes components that go into auto parts manufactured in the United States. Those parts are delivered to factories in Mexico that produce finished vehicles sold to Americans. Calling such vehicles Mexican imports misses that much of the value is produced in the United States, employing American labor.“The idea of trade wars these days, what politicians have in mind is really a 19th-century or early 20th-century conception of trade,” said Gianmarco I.P. Ottaviano, a trade economist at the London School of Economics. “You don’t even know who you’re going to hurt with these kind of things. You’re probably going to destroy American jobs in the end.”Mr. Trump owes his office in no small measure to factory workers who have come to view global trade as a mortal threat to their livelihoods. But their sentiments are grounded not in ideology, but in a desire for jobs at decent wages. If Mr. Trump impedes imports, he could put some of these voters out of work.Beyond the economic effects, Mr. Trump’s refashioning of trade has already altered global alignments.In emphasizing “America First,” Mr. Trump has generated a widespread sense that the country is surrendering its global leadership position. Britain’s abandonment of the European Union has enhanced the view that a period of international integration has devolved to a new era in which nationalist concerns are paramount.On Friday, as Mr. Trump hosted British Prime Minister Theresa May, he only increased the sense that he disdains Europe.“Brexit’s going to be a wonderful thing for your country,” he told Ms. May at a news conference, before recounting his frustrations with the union’s bureaucracy. “Getting the approvals from Europe was very, very tough.”With both countries pursuing nationalist aspirations and multilateral institutions seemingly endangered, the world suddenly seems short of responsible supervision.China is working to assume the mantle. President Xi Jinping of China last week used an address in Davos, to submit his nation’s bid as a reliable champion of expanded trade.China does not have free elections. China jails labor organizers, while lavishing credit on state-owned enterprises. All of this makes Mr. Xi an ironic choice as an icon for free trade. Yet Mr. Xi’s speech was so successful that it won the embrace of business people and world leaders alike.At a lunch in Davos two days after Mr. Xi’s address, a Berlin-based private equity fund manager, André Loesekrug-Pietri, stood in a dining room full of more than 100 people and predicted the dawning of a new era.“We heard a Chinese president becoming the leader of the free world,” he said.
PARIS — The ability of an Oscar-nominated Iranian director to attend the Academy Awards ceremony next month has been thrown into question by President Trump’s order temporarily banning citizens of seven predominantly Muslim countries from entering the United States.The director, Asghar Farhadi, whose film “The Salesman” is nominated in the best foreign-language film category, was not immediately available for comment.But early Saturday, Trita Parsi, director of the National Iranian American Council, based in Washington, said in a Twitter post: “Confirmed: Iran’s Asghar Farhadi won’t be let into the US to attend Oscar’s. He’s nominated for best foreign-language film... #MuslimBan”In a telephone interview hours later, Mr. Parsi said he had heard only second hand that Mr. Farhadi would not attend the ceremony on Feb. 26. Mr. Parsi said his intention with the message posted on Twitter was to show that under the new immigration policy announced on Friday, no Iranians would be allowed entry into the United States for 90 days.“The clarification of the law made it very clear that he can’t come, whether a green card holder or an Iranian citizen,” Mr. Parsi said of Mr. Farhadi, whose film “A Separation” won an Oscar for best foreign-language film in 2012.Mr. Parsi added that he had not meant to imply that the United States government had requested that Mr. Farhadi not come to the Oscars ceremony, but to call attention to the ban itself.“It is so stunning and shocking — so profoundly un-American — that people have a hard time wrapping their heads around it,” Mr. Parsi said.It was unclear whether Mr. Farhadi would request an exemption to the visa ban or be granted one by the United States government.Earlier this week, one of the stars of “The Salesman,” Taraneh Alidoosti, said in a message on Twitter that she would boycott the Oscars to protest the visa ban, which she called “racist.” The ban was not policy at the time.“I decided not to go even if I could, because it hurts me deeply to see ordinary people of my country being rejected for what might be their legal right to have access to their children abroad or to their school classes as students,” Ms. Alidoosti told The New York Times in an interview.The government of Iran approved the “The Salesman” for submission to the Academy Awards; it is one of five films vying for best foreign-language film. The film tells the story of a couple in Tehran whose lives are upended when they move from one apartment to another while they are acting in an amateur production of “Death of a Salesman,” a play by Arthur Miller.In a statement, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences said it was “extremely troubling” that Mr. Farhadi and the cast and crew of “The Salesman,” could be “barred from entering the country because of their religion or country of origin.”The Academy gives an allotment of tickets to distributors and representatives of all nominated films, who are responsible for securing visas when necessary.The proposed ban has affected those connected to other films. The Iraqi director Hussein Hassan withdrew his visa application to the United States, where he was expected to attend the United States premiere of his film “Reseba — The Dark Wind” at the Miami Film Festival, Variety reported.
ISTANBUL — Turkey and Greece have reignited a decades-old disagreement over the sovereignty of a pair of uninhabited Aegean Islands, in a spat that analysts say risks aggravating other diplomatic disputes between the two countries.The Greek defense minister, Panos Kammenos, flew over the two disputed islands on Wednesday, the Greek government said, in a pointed response to a visit three days earlier to nearby waters by the commander of the Turkish armed forces, Hulusi Akar.The exchange is the most public disagreement over the tiny islands’ sovereignty since 1996, when soldiers from both countries landed on them before American-led mediation persuaded both sides to leave the area.Turkey disputes Greece’s claim that the islands — known as Imia in Greece and Kardak in Turkey — entered Greek ownership in 1947, after first being assigned to Italy in 1923 following the fall of the Ottoman Empire.Analysts said that Turkey’s recent incursions were a response to the decision by the Greek Supreme Court last week to block the extradition of eight Turkish airmen accused of participating in the failed attempt last July to oust the Turkish government. They also warned that the dispute risked complicating negotiations over the reunification of Cyprus.Turkey has itself said the case could derail a migration pact between Greece and Turkey, which has helped to stem the flow of migrants between Turkey and Europe significantly.Sinan Ulgen, a Turkey scholar at Carnegie Europe, said he did not believe the dispute would spiral into military conflict.“But there certainly may be other consequences because it comes at a very inopportune time for the Cyprus talks, for instance,” Mr. Ulgen said by telephone.A spokesman for the Turkish Foreign Ministry said he was unavailable for comment, while the Turkish presidency did not respond to enquiries.A spokesman for the Greek Foreign Ministry declined to link the escalation over the islands to last week’s court decision, but said his government had no ability to deport the airmen against the wishes of the Greek judiciary.“From the very first moment, the Greek government condemned the July coup,” the spokesman said by telephone. “We said the people who participated in the coup are not welcome in our country, but of course the Greek government is different to the independent Greek judiciary.”Turkey has already sent a second request for the airmen’s extradition, suggesting that the dispute has room to grow, said Soner Cagaptay, who heads Turkey research at the Washington Institute, a policy research organization.“If Greece rejects the second request, then Erdogan will escalate further, and this could include the Cyprus talks, the migration pact and military escalation along the Aegean,” Mr. Cagaptay said, referring to the president of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan.“Turkey’s toolbox is full of items that are almost infinite in nature,” Mr. Cagaptay added.
Last summer, two defensemen from opposing conferences with distinct styles of play and contrasting personalities were forever placed in the same breath, their destinies intertwined by a trade.The Nashville Predators sent Shea Weber, their cornerstone, to the Montreal Canadiens for P. K. Subban, who had become tremendously popular in Montreal and throughout the league. Subban, 27, won a Norris Trophy as the league’s top defenseman in 2013. Weber, 31, had been a three-time finalist for the award.“Sometimes you forget that superstars get traded,” Anaheim Ducks defenseman Cam Fowler said. “Obviously, what P. K. meant to Montreal and the impact that he had on that city, it was hard for them to let him go. The same with Shea, who was their captain for years.”Weber and Subban were together again at last weekend’s All-Star three-on-three tournament. Weber’s 31 points in 50 games for the first-place Canadiens, and his plus-18 rating, made him an obvious selection. Subban was voted in as a team captain by the fans despite a mixed first half of the season. He posted only 18 points and missed 16 games for the Predators, who are in third place in the Central Division.“I don’t know if they were voting for best performance,” Subban said of the fans. “I think it probably came down to best-looking captain, which would have been me for sure.”Seldom had a major trade come together so quickly and so unexpectedly. The deal was first discussed just days earlier, after Canadiens General Manager Marc Bergevin insisted he was not shopping Subban.Subban had signed an eight-year, $72 million extension before the 2014-15 season. Weber had one of the largest and most controversial contracts in N.H.L. history. When he was a restricted free agent, the Philadelphia Flyers made him an offer designed to be too burdensome for the smaller-market Predators to match. But they did, and that front-loaded contract was worth $110 million over 14 years, with nearly $70 million in signing bonuses.Effervescent and extroverted, Subban had become a top scorer not only among the Canadiens but defensemen across the N.H.L., had learned French and had donated $10 million to Montreal Children’s Hospital.Weber, steely and businesslike, was beloved in Nashville. He is regarded as the most menacing defenseman in the league because of his nasty physical play and unparalleled slap shot. On All-Star weekend, Weber won his third straight hardest-shot competition.“He’s physical and he’s mean,” Tampa Bay defenseman Victor Hedman said. “He’s one of the top defensemen in the whole league. What separates him is his massive shot. You try to block it, but sometimes you pray to God that the puck doesn’t hit you.”Many fans in Montreal were crestfallen after the trade, including one who purchased a full-page ad in The Montreal Gazette criticizing the deal and comparing it to the trade of Patrick Roy. The fervor around the trade grew so great that someone registered a web domain, pksubbantracker.com, to stage an ongoing vote of which team had won the trade.“Not very many players get to leave a city like Montreal and have fans support them the way that the fans support me,” Subban said.But despite the initial disbelief from Montreal fans, 85 percent of votes on pksubbantracker.com are in favor of Weber and the Canadiens.Weber had 12 points as Montreal went 13-1-1 in its first 15 games, and he had 10 points in 13 games in January after an unproductive December. With 18 power-play points in 50 games, he appears set to cruise past his career high, 26.Montreal Coach Michel Therrien said Weber had also been excellent at even strength, in addition to providing the tough-to-quantify qualities the Canadiens sought.“When you’re talking about leaders, he’s probably one of the best in the league,” Therrien said. “He’s all business. He makes people around him better and more focused. We’re a young group, and we need a guy like that in the dressing room.”Therrien added, “He’s helped me to be a better coach, and that’s what you’re looking for from your leaders.”The Predators, who made the playoffs the past two seasons, had a turbulent start to this season, marred by injuries, illnesses and inconsistency. Even Subban, who had played 274 consecutive games to start his career, missed five weeks, the longest stretch of his career. But Nashville has captured 20 out of a possible 28 points in the past month, climbing into the playoff picture.“We fought through it and stayed afloat,” Subban said. “Now we’re getting guys back, we’re jelling and we’re chipping away.”Weber declined to make any comparisons between two very different cities or between the highly structured system of Therrien and the freewheeling Nashville coach, Peter Laviolette. Subban said he had been captivated by the energy in Nashville and impressed with Laviolette’s ability to forge through less-than-ideal circumstances.“It’s a fun place to be, and I’m really happy to be there,” Subban said.In Montreal, Weber gets his time in the spotlight with one of the league’s most hallowed teams. The CBC analyst Don Cherry once said of Weber, “The only reason he didn’t win the Norris was because he was in Nashville and nobody knew he was alive.”The debate over who won the trade may run well past the end of Subban’s and Weber’s careers. But with two such talented players, it would be hard to describe either side as a loser.“In the hockey world, you trade for what you want, and both teams got what they want,” Nashville General Manager David Poile said this month, the first time the teams had met since the trade. “And you guys get something to talk about for the next 10 years.”
The idea sounded like fun, an adventure even.The Premier League had helpfully scheduled two important matches in London on Saturday — Arsenal at Chelsea at midday, and Middlesbrough’s visit to Tottenham in late afternoon — and NBC’s lead soccer announcer, Arlo White, sensed opportunity.Why not, White suggested to his bosses, have his broadcast team work both games? The obvious logistical challenge — navigating London’s labyrinth of narrow lanes and one-way streets in a tight time window — surely could be overcome by smart routes and skilled drivers.NBC management quickly agreed, but with a twist: Instead of cars, the announcers would battle the traffic, and the clock, on motorcycle taxis.“My first reaction was: ‘You idiot. What have you done?’ ” White said.White, it seems, has never been on a motorcycle taxi, but it was too late. So on Saturday, he and his broadcast partners, Lee Dixon and Graeme Le Saux, will work the Chelsea-Arsenal showdown at Stamford Bridge, west of the city core, and then mount separate motorcycles, taking separate routes, and race into position for the day’s late game at Tottenham’s White Hart Lane, 14 sometimes-long-and-maddening miles to the northeast.“Motorbike taxis are a familiar way of getting around London if you want to get anywhere in some reasonable amount of time,” said White, who noted that Dixon regularly arrives at stadiums on the back of one. “But I have fastidiously avoided them my entire life. I’m terrified of them, frankly.”Calling two games in a day will be the easy part, White said; he and other broadcasters routinely pull doubleheaders, in his case at tournaments like the Olympics. Viewers, he said, probably would not have noticed if NBC had attempted the double under the radar. Instead, his anxiety will be front and center.As he discussed the plan, though, White had a bigger problem.“I’ve been so excited about it I don’t think I’ve told my wife,” he said. “I guess I better do that, and we’ll check the insurance policy this week.”
In the United States, they are called Cinderellas. In Britain, the name for a long-shot team that goes on a surprising run in a big tournament also comes from fairy tales, though it is somewhat less benign. The phrase that’s used is giant killer.And right now is a boom time for giant killers.When the draw was made for the last 16 of the F.A. Cup on Monday, it included two teams that play in the fifth tier of English soccer, which means they are not even part of the Football League, which includes only the top four tiers. Since the league was founded in 1888, this is the first time that two teams of such low ranking have together made it this far in the F.A. Cup. Given the ever-widening gap between haves and have-nots in soccer, it is all the more remarkable.One of the 16 is Sutton United, a team from South London that, a year ago, was playing in the sixth tier. Sutton’s run to the final 16 includes wins over fourth-tier Cheltenham, third-tier A.F.C. Wimbledon and, on Sunday, second-tier Leeds United, a former Champions League semifinalist. It is Sutton United’s first visit to the round of 16.Sutton benefited from the approach Leeds took to Sunday’s game. Leeds is concentrating on trying to win promotion to the Premier League and rolled out a team to play Sutton that included many backups and youngsters. Still, even Sutton’s official Twitter account could not quite believe the 1-0 victory, posting: “Wow, wow, wow.”The other giant killer is Lincoln City, from the East Midlands. Lincoln beat third-tier Oldham and two second-tier teams, Ipswich and, on Saturday, Brighton, which missed out on promotion to the Premier League last season only on goal difference.Sutton and Lincoln City have now advanced further in this season’s F.A. Cup than Liverpool, a big shot in the Premier League. Liverpool was knocked out by Wolverhampton Wanderers on Saturday.Only nine times since World War II has a team so lowly made it this far. All seven of the previous teams lost in the round of 16. That could happen again this time, since Sutton and Lincoln City face much sterner tests in that round. Lincoln will play Burnley, a Premier League team, although a modest one. Sutton, meanwhile, will have to face mighty Arsenal.English soccer fans often speak of “the magic of the Cup,” to conjure up the kind of upsets that have taken place recently. But over the years, as many of the best teams in England began to put their emphasis on the Premier League and the Champions League instead of the F.A. Cup, the phrase more and more seemed like wishful thinking.After last weekend’s upsets, however, the F.A. Cup does feel a little more magical.
YANGON, Myanmar — U Ko Ni, a prominent human rights lawyer and a legal adviser to Myanmar’s leader, Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, was fatally shot at Yangon International Airport on Sunday.Mr. Ko Ni, 65, a Muslim and a member of the ruling National League for Democracy, was returning from Indonesia with about 20 other government officials and civic leaders, who had traveled there as part of a government-organized trip to discuss democracy and conflict resolution.He was shot in the head at close range as he was about to leave the airport in his family car, according to witnesses.“During the shooting, he was holding his grandchild,” said U Aung Myint Oo, an airport security guard. “He fell down bleeding on the ground and died on the spot.”As the gunman tried to flee, he shot and killed a taxi driver, U Ne Win, who had tried to stop him. Other taxi drivers detained the gunman until the police arrived and arrested him, seizing two handguns. He was identified by police as U Kyi Lin from Mandalay, Myanmar.According to taxi drivers who witnessed the attack, the gunman shouted, “You can’t act like that,” before opening fire.The police were seen searching the house of Mr. Kyi Lyn in a neighborhood of Mandalay.No motive for the killing has been given. Mr. Ko Ni was one of the best-known Muslims in Buddhist-majority Myanmar, serving as a legal adviser to the National League for Democracy. He was the author of six books on human rights issues and democratic elections, and was actively involved in the interfaith peace movement.“It seems the gunman knew the exact time of his arrival and was waiting to shoot him,” said a member of the team who traveled with Mr. Ko Ni to Indonesia, and who spoke on the condition of anonymity over concern for his safety. “I was shocked and scared. It is unsafe here.”A spokesman for the National League for Democracy, U Win Htein, said during a telephone interview from Naypyidaw, Myanmar’s capital, that Mr. Ko Ni was a key adviser in recent years to Ms. Suu Kyi, the former opposition leader turned leader of Myanmar, on constitutional amendments.“His assassination was a big blow to the National League for Democracy, and it would be very difficult for us to replace him,” Mr. Win Htein said. “We lost a hero. It is a bad situation here.”Amnesty International, which worked with Mr. Ko Ni on human rights issues in Myanmar, called for an independent investigation into his death.“The killing of prominent lawyer U Ko Ni in Yangon today is an appalling act that has all the hallmarks of an assassination,” Josef Benedict, the organization’s deputy campaigns director for Southeast Asia and the Pacific, said in a statement.“It demands that the authorities immediately launch a thorough, independent and impartial investigation,” Mr. Benedict added. “The authorities must send a clear message that such violence will not be tolerated and will not go unpunished.”
UNITED NATIONS — The new secretary general of the United Nations said Wednesday that the Trump administration’s visa ban for citizens of seven Muslim-majority nations “violates our basic principles” and would do little to stem the threat of terrorism.“This is not the way to best protect the United States or any other country in relation to the serious concerns that exist of the possibilities of terrorist infiltration,” said the secretary general, António Guterres, in his first detailed remarks on President Trump’s executive order, which also suspended Syrian refugee resettlement. “I think these measures should be removed sooner rather than later.”Mr. Guterres, who took over as leader of the United Nations a month ago, was for 10 years the head of the United Nations refugee agency. He said Syrians today had the most urgent need for protection.“I strongly hope that the U.S. will be able to re-establish its very solid refugee protection in resettlement and I hope that the Syrians will not be excluded in that process,” Mr. Guterres told reporters at the United Nations headquarters.The secretary general stopped short of calling Mr. Trump’s executive order illegal under international law. But asked whether it violates international obligations, he said: “I think that those measures indeed violate our basic principles. And I think that they are not effective if the objective is to indeed avoid terrorists to enter the United States.”Mr. Guterres is under enormous pressure. On the one hand, he must speak out against discrimination, in keeping with the rules enshrined in international conventions. On the other, he needs to avoid alienating the Trump administration, now in charge of the United Nations’ biggest financial backer.Mr. Guterres declined to comment about the White House’s reported threats to cut financial support to the United Nations, saying he did not want to prejudge what has not yet been announced. “When you talk too much about things that have not happened, you trigger the happening of those things,” he said.He said he had had “a very constructive discussion” with the new United States ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki R. Haley.“What I am doing is to do everything I can to prove the added value of the U.N., to recognize the U.N. needs reforms, to be totally committed to those reforms,” Mr. Guterres said.In his view, he said, that approach is “the best way to get, indeed, the support of all member states, including the United States of America and the new administration.”Mr. Guterres had been more restrained in his criticism of the Trump administration’s travel ban than some others at the United Nations. The organization’s top human rights official, Zeid Ra’ad al-Hussein, said in a Twitter post earlier this week that Mr. Trump’s order flouted international law.On Wednesday, five independent human rights experts for the United Nations also criticized the Trump administration in a statement that described the new American policy as a discriminatory action that had stigmatized Muslim communities.The countries affected by Mr. Trump’s order are Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.Mr. Guterres, in his comments on Wednesday, also warned of a backlash.“When we adopt measures that spread anxiety and anger,” he said, “we help trigger the kind of recruitment mechanism that these organizations are doing everywhere in the world.”
UNITED NATIONS — The new secretary general of the United Nations said on Wednesday that the Trump administration’s visa bans for citizens of seven Muslim-majority nations “violate our basic principles” and would do little to stem the threat of terrorism.“This is not the way to best protect the United States or any other country in relation to the serious concerns that exist of the possibilities of terrorist infiltration,” said the secretary general, António Guterres, in his first detailed remarks on President Trump’s executive order, which also suspended Syrian refugee resettlement. “I think these measures should be removed sooner rather than later.”Mr. Guterres, who took over as leader of the United Nations a month ago, was for 10 years the head of the United Nations refugee agency. He said Syrians today had the most urgent need for protection.“I strongly hope that the U.S. will be able to re-establish its very solid refugee protection in resettlement and I hope that the Syrians will not be excluded in that process,” Mr. Guterres told reporters at the United Nations headquarters.The secretary general stopped short of calling Mr. Trump’s executive order illegal under international law. But asked whether it violates international obligations, he said: “I think that those measures indeed violate our basic principles. And I think that they are not effective if the objective is to really avoid terrorists to enter the United States.”Mr. Guterres is under enormous pressure. On the one hand, he must speak out against discrimination, in keeping with the rules enshrined in international conventions. On the other, he needs to avoid alienating the Trump administration, now in charge of the United Nations’ biggest financial backer.Mr. Guterres declined to comment about the White House’s reported threats to cut financial support to the United Nations, saying he did not want to prejudge what has not yet been announced. “When you talk too much about things that have not happened, you trigger the happening of those things,” he said.He said he had held “a very constructive discussion” with the new United States ambassador to the United Nations, Nikki R. Haley.“What I am doing is to do everything I can to prove the added value of the U.N., to recognize the U.N. needs reforms, to be totally committed to those reforms,” Mr. Guterres said.In his view, he said, that approach is “the best way to get, indeed, the support of all member states, including the United States of America and the new administration.”Mr. Guterres had been more restrained in his criticism of the Trump administration’s travel ban than some others at the United Nations. The organization’s top human rights official, Zeid Ra’ad al-Hussein, said in a Twitter post earlier this week that Mr. Trump’s order flouted international law.On Wednesday, five independent human rights experts for the United Nations also criticized the Trump administration in a statement that described the new American policy as a discriminatory action that had stigmatized Muslim communities.The countries affected by Mr. Trump’s order are Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.Mr. Guterres, in his comments on Wednesday, also warned of a backlash.“When we adopt measures that spread anxiety and anger,” he said, “we help trigger the kind of recruitment mechanism that these organizations are doing everywhere in the world.”Legal experts say the executive order could collide with international law. It is already facing numerous legal challenges in American courts.No country is legally obliged to provide resettlement to refugees, and every country has the sovereign right to decide who is admitted into its territory. But the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, a treaty that came into force in 1976, prohibits discrimination on the basis of religion or national origin in determining who is denied entry into a country.Additionally, laws governing the rights of refugees prohibit returning people to countries where they could face violence or persecution. The 1967 refugee protocol, which the United States has signed, also prohibits discrimination on the basis of religion, race or national origin. In a post on the legal site Just Security, James C. Hathaway, a University of Michigan law professor, called Mr. Trump’s executive order “willfully blind” to the United States’ obligation under that law.
WASHINGTON — One American commando was killed and three others were injured in a fierce firefight overnight with Qaeda militants in central Yemen, the military said Sunday morning. The raid was the first counterterrorism operation approved by President Trump since he took office nine days ago.Commandos from the Navy’s SEAL Team 6 carried out the surprise dawn attack in Bayda Province in a ground raid that lasted a little less than an hour. The target was a headquarters for Al Qaeda’s branch in Yemen that counterterrorism officials had deemed valuable enough to warrant a ground operation rather than an airstrike, a senior American official said.Gen. Joseph Votel, the head of the Pentagon’s Central Command, said in a statement: “We are deeply saddened by the loss of one of our elite service members. The sacrifices are very profound in our fight against terrorists who threaten innocent peoples across the globe.”A military aircraft assisting in the operation crash-landed nearby, leaving two more service members injured, the statement said. That aircraft, identified by a senior American official as an MV-22 Osprey sent to evacuate the troops wounded in the raid, was unable to fly after the landing and was intentionally destroyed by American airstrikes.An estimated 14 Qaeda fighters were killed in the raid, which led to “the capture of information that will likely provide insight into the planning of future terror plots,” the statement said.The senior American official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss operational details, denied reports from the region that civilian women and children were among the dead.A little more than a week ago, suspected United States drone strikes killed three other fighters believed to be Qaeda operatives in Bayda Province in what was the first such killings reported in the country since Mr. Trump assumed the presidency.
WASHINGTON — One American commando was killed and three others were wounded in a fierce firefight early Sunday with Qaeda militants in central Yemen, the military said on Sunday. It was the first counterterrorism operation authorized by President Trump since he took office, and the commando was the first United States service member to die in the yearslong shadow war against Al Qaeda’s Yemen affiliate.Members of the Navy’s SEAL Team 6 carried out the surprise dawn attack, and the military said that about 14 Qaeda fighters were killed during a nearly hourlong battle. A Qaeda leader — a brother-in-law of Anwar al-Awlaki, the American-born cleric and top Qaeda leader in Yemen, who died in a drone strike in 2011 — was believed to have been killed.After initially denying that there were any civilian casualties, American officials said they were assessing reports that women and children had died in the attack.The military’s Joint Special Operations Command had been planning the mission for months, according to three senior American officials. Obama administration aides had deliberated extensively over the proposed operation, weighing the value of any information that might be recovered against the risk to the Special Operations forces plunging into hostile territory. But administration officials ultimately opted to hand the decision on the mission to their successors.Mr. Trump, who has vowed to increase pressure on militant groups worldwide, was quickly persuaded that the rewards were worth the gamble, and he authorized the mission last week, military officials said. Commandos waited for a moonless evening on Saturday to exploit their advantage of fighting at night.As helicopter gunships and armed Reaper drones provided cover, the commandos carried out the attack against the home of the Qaeda leader in the rugged mountainous region of Bayda Province, a part of Yemen that has been a focal point of United States military operations over the past month. The main target was computer materials inside the house that could contain clues about future terrorist plots.In a statement on Sunday, Mr. Trump called the raid “successful” and said that it had captured “important intelligence that will assist the U.S. in preventing terrorism against its citizens and people around the world.” He also lamented the loss of the American service member “in our fight against the evil of radical Islamic terrorism.”The military’s Central Command said in an earlier statement on Sunday that “similar operations have produced intelligence on Al Qaeda logistics, recruiting and financing efforts.” In previous raids in Iraq, Syria and Somalia, commandos have recovered laptop computers, thumb drives and cellphones that yielded important information about militant leaders’ locations, activities and associates.A United States military aircraft helping with the operation experienced a “hard landing” near the site of the raid, resulting in injuries to two other service members, military officials said. That aircraft, identified by a senior American official as an Osprey that was evacuating the troops wounded in the firefight, was unable to fly after the landing and was deliberately destroyed by American airstrikes. The wounded troops and the Osprey’s crew were lifted to safety by another American aircraft.American officials and analysts said the Qaeda leader who was believed to have been killed was Abdulrauf al Dhahab.The raid took place in Yemen around the time that Mr. Trump was signing a directive in Washington on Saturday afternoon ordering Defense Secretary Jim Mattis to devise within 30 days a more aggressive plan to defeat the Islamic State.The Islamic State was born from Al Qaeda’s branch in Iraq, but the two terrorist organizations are now sworn rivals not only in Iraq and Syria, but also in other hot spots like Yemen and Afghanistan, where both groups have affiliates.Because Mr. Trump had been explicit about his intention to ask for the review to accelerate the fight against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, American military planners had begun drafting classified options to present to the new commander in chief. Some of those options, like pushing more authority to conduct strikes to commanders in the field or loosening restrictions designed to limit the risk to civilians, could also be applied to attacks against Qaeda fighters and Islamic State insurgents.There were no immediate indications that the rules of engagement had been loosened for the mission in Yemen, military officials said. The Central Command’s statement did not elaborate on details of the raid or identify the commando who was killed.A local resident who witnessed the raid, speaking by phone, said he had seen warplanes bombing several houses in the village around 2 a.m. Sunday. The man said he had seen at least three buildings being struck before he fled. He did not want to be identified because he feared that speaking out would endanger his life.A Yemeni government official in Bayda Province said the targeted buildings belonged to the Dhahab family, which is known for its ties to Al Qaeda. Two male members of the family have been killed in drone strikes over the past two years.The Yemeni official said that at least eight women and seven children, ages 3 to 13, had been killed in the raid. Qaeda supporters said that Mr. Awlaki’s young daughter was among the dead and denied that any senior Qaeda leaders had been killed, according to the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors extremist communications.Faisal Mohamed, a Bayda official whose two sons witnessed the attack, said it severely damaged a school, a health facility and a mosque.“I was on the way back to town when they called and said that there were Americans everywhere, so I knew I should not go,” Mr. Mohamed said by phone from nearby Marib Province. “My kids told me that the sky was crowded with helicopters and that they saw people jumping out of planes.”“The last thing they said to me was that the whole town is devastated now,” Mr. Mohamed said.Just over a week ago, United States drone strikes killed three other men suspected of being Qaeda operatives in Bayda Province, the first such killings reported in the country since Mr. Trump assumed the presidency.Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, the group’s branch in Yemen, has long been seen by American intelligence and counterterrorism officials as among the most dangerous branches of the global terrorist network, and the one posing the most immediate threat to United States territory. The group’s leaders have sought in at least three cases to detonate bombs hidden aboard American commercial jetliners. All of those plots were thwarted.The raid on Saturday night was the latest in a series of Special Operations drone strikes and ground attacks in Yemen in recent years.In November 2014, helicopter-borne Special Operations commandos and Yemeni troops rescued eight hostages being held in a remote part of eastern Yemen by Al Qaeda’s affiliate there. After landing, the commandos hiked some distance in the dark to a mountainside cave, where they surprised the militants holding the captives.A month later, in December 2014, United States commandos stormed a village in southern Yemen in an effort to free an American photojournalist held hostage by Al Qaeda. But the raid ended in tragedy, with the kidnappers killing the journalist and a South African held with him.
OAKLAND, Calif. — A federal prosecutor said Wednesday that Noor Salman, the widow of the man who killed 49 people at an Orlando, Fla., nightclub last June, knew that her husband was planning the assault that became one of the deadliest mass shootings in United States history.“She knew he was leaving that night to do the attack, and her actions contributed to the deaths of 49 people,” Sara Sweeney, an assistant United States attorney, said during a hearing here in Federal District Court, where a shackled Ms. Salman appeared for a third time since being indicted under an antiterrorism statute.“I knew when he left that he was going to commit the attack,” Ms. Salman, who knew her husband was carrying firearms and a backpack stuffed with ammunition, told the authorities, according to Ms. Sweeney. A lawyer for Ms. Salman, Charles D. Swift, said her comments were a result of intimidation by investigators in the hours after Omar Mateen opened fire at Pulse, where 53 people were also wounded.Still, Wednesday’s hearing, a proceeding to determine whether Ms. Salman could be released on bond, represented the first time that the government substantially described the allegations that last month led a grand jury in Orlando to return an indictment. Resisting the defense’s request for bond, Ms. Sweeney said Ms. Salman had “shown herself to be a very calculated and callous person,” in part because she developed a cover story for Mr. Mateen to use in the hours before the June 12, 2016, attack. The police killed Mr. Mateen, who declared his allegiance to the Islamic State during his rampage at the popular gay nightclub.Ms. Salman, the only person to be charged in connection with the attack, could be sentenced to life in prison if she is convicted of aiding and abetting by providing material support to a foreign terrorist organization. She is also charged with obstruction of justice.In court filings on Tuesday that seemed to serve as a broad outline of the defense’s strategy, and again before Magistrate Judge Donna M. Ryu on Wednesday morning, Mr. Swift argued that Ms. Salman was neither a likely fugitive nor a risk to public safety. Mr. Swift also suggested that Ms. Salman, who received special education services when she was a high school student, lacked the intellectual capacity to understand or assist in an elaborate plot.“In this case, it is clear that Noor poses no danger to any person or the community,” Mr. Swift wrote. “Any threat she might have posed is solely a function of Mateen, and that threat has been removed. Unlike others charged with material support of terrorism, Noor does not adhere to a violent religious philosophy.”Mr. Swift, using an alternative name for the Islamic State, also argued that Ms. Salman’s “connection to the crime does not stem from her desire to provide material support to ISIL, but rather her tragic marriage to an individual who allegedly desired to support ISIL, among other terrorist organizations, by attacking the patrons of the Pulse Night Club.”Investigators do not believe that Mr. Mateen received any specific direction or assistance from the Islamic State, but that he was radicalized online. Before the attack, he had been questioned by the F.B.I. and had drawn the attention of law enforcement for alarming comments.Although Mr. Swift acknowledged that Ms. Salman, who wept in court on Wednesday, knew of Mr. Mateen’s long-term interest in jihadist ideology, he contended that she had no meaningful knowledge of his plan to attack Pulse. Ms. Salman, in an interview last year with The New York Times, said, “I was unaware of everything.” Ms. Sweeney offered a decidedly more sinister account and said that shortly before the attack, Ms. Salman and Mr. Mateen made arrangements for access to the couple’s funds after his death. Ms. Sweeney also said that Ms. Salman had joined Mr. Mateen when he scouted the nightclub.A crucial component of the defense’s case, which is expected to be heard in Orlando, will be the condition of Ms. Salman’s marriage to Mr. Mateen, her second husband. Mr. Swift said that Mr. Mateen had been “violent and abusive” toward Ms. Salman and that Mr. Mateen had repeatedly threatened his wife.In a statement filed with the court, Dr. Jacquelyn C. Campbell, a domestic violence expert at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, said that an assessment of Ms. Salman after the Pulse attack showed that she had been in “extreme danger” during her marriage to Mr. Mateen. “This means that she scored within the range where 98 percent of the women who scored within this range were killed, or almost killed, by an intimate partner,” Dr. Campbell wrote. Ms. Sweeney dismissed the assessment’s findings.Judge Ryu postponed a decision on bond for Ms. Salman, who has been held at a county jail, and ordered her to undergo a psychological evaluation.Standing outside the courthouse after the hearing, Mr. Swift said that Ms. Salman was being made into a scapegoat. “You know what she is?” Mr. Swift asked. “She’s alive, and Omar Mateen is dead, so she’s the only person they can charge.”
WASHINGTON — The Trump administration condemned Iran on Wednesday for its recent test of a ballistic missile, saying it was putting Tehran “on notice” and threatening reprisals, still unspecified, from the United States.“As of today, we are officially putting Iran on notice,” said Michael T. Flynn, the national security adviser, speaking in the White House briefing room. He said Iran’s test was the latest in a series of provocative actions that had destabilized the region and violated United Nations resolutions.Mr. Flynn did not specify how the administration would respond, although other officials have said the White House is weighing sanctions on the Iranian government. Officials planned to brief the news media later on Wednesday afternoon.“The Obama administration failed to respond adequately to Iran’s malign actions,” Mr. Flynn said.He said the United States and Iran had signed several agreements that he labeled “weak and ineffective.” Instead of being grateful to the United States, he said, Iran had escalated its provocations.There was no immediate comment from the Iranian government on Mr. Flynn’s remarks. But the National Iranian American Council, a group that has criticized the Iran government while advocating improved ties with the United States, condemned Mr. Flynn.“While Flynn’s remarks could be construed as simply bluster, they will begin an Iranian response which in turn will beget further threats by the U.S.,” Trita Parsi, the council’s president, said in a statement. “At some point, this escalatory cycle that started with bluster may end in war.”Political risk analysts who follow Iran also expressed concern. Cliff Kupchan, chairman of the Eurasia Group in Washington, called Mr. Flynn’s remarks “very worrisome.”Mr. Kupchan and others also questioned how Iran’s missile tests had violated the particular Security Council resolution in question, 2231 of 2015, in which Iran is “called upon” to refrain from missile tests but is not specifically forbidden from conducting them.Earlier on Wednesday, Iran confirmed that it had recently conducted a missile test, but it rejected accusations from the United States that the launch had violated a United Nations Security Council resolution.The confirmation by the defense minister, Hossein Dehghan, was the first by an Iranian official since the country was accused of violating the 2015 resolution because the test involved a ballistic missile that could theoretically carry a nuclear warhead.The remarks came a day after President Hassan Rouhani and Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif disparaged President Trump for his immigration order barring refugees, as well as citizens of seven predominantly Muslim countries including Iran.“Banning visas for other nations is the act of newcomers to the political scene,” Mr. Rouhani said.Mr. Dehghan emphasized that the missile test did not, in Iran’s view, violate the terms of the resolution, nor those of the 2015 nuclear agreement that preceded it.No country will be allowed to interfere in Iranian domestic affairs, he said, adding that tests would continue.“Our nation has tested itself in this path,” Mr. Dehghan said, adding that the world had “tested us” and that “these statements and measures cannot affect the will of our nation.”Mr. Trump has repeatedly described the nuclear agreement, reached with the United States and other countries, as “a very bad deal,” and many of his advisers have argued in speeches and books that Iran is the biggest threat to American interests.“You’re going to see us call them out as we said we would, and you are also going to see us act accordingly,” Nikki R. Haley, the new United States ambassador to the United Nations, said on Tuesday.The United States called an urgent meeting of the Security Council on Tuesday to discuss the matter.Iran does not have a modern fleet of fighter jets, but it has tried to compensate in recent decades by building an extensive defense program, with missiles able to strike Israel and Southern and Eastern Europe.It has denied that its missiles can carry nuclear warheads, a view that has been supported by the International Atomic Energy Agency, which monitors parts of the execution of the nuclear agreement.
U.S.A. Wrestling said the United States would compete next month in Iran, one of seven Muslim-majority countries whose citizens were temporarily banned from the United States by an executive order from President Trump.Rich Bender, U.S.A. Wrestling’s executive director, said the American team had “every intention” of traveling to Kermanshah for the men’s freestyle World Cup on Feb. 16-17. Bender said the federation had been given assurances from Iran that special attention was being given to the athletes’ applications.“Wrestling has shown a long, rich history of transcending politics and participating despite governmental disagreements,” Bender said. “That’s the beauty of sport and the Olympic movement. It’s about competition, not politics.”The scheduled trip would be the first major test for United States athletes traveling to one of the seven nations affected by Trump’s 90-day ban, which was issued last week.In addition, the United States Olympic Committee said it had received assurances from government officials that the travel ban would not affect a World Cup archery event scheduled for Las Vegas on Feb. 10, or other international competitions.The casino mogul Sheldon Adelson pulled out of a plan to build a $1.9 billion domed stadium for the Oakland Raiders’ proposed move to Las Vegas. In a terse statement, Adelson said he had been excluded from talks before the team sent a lease proposal last week to the public board that would own the 65,000-seat stadium.Adelson said his family and the Las Vegas Sands Corporation would “no longer be involved in any facet” of the plan. In a statement, the Raiders still vowed to make the move happen.Adelson had pledged $650 million to bolster the Raiders’ $500 million commitment, with the stadium authority agreeing to contribute $750 million in Las Vegas tax revenue. The office of Gov. Brian Sandoval of Nevada said the Raiders would now have to invest $1.15 billion and accept operating responsibilities.N.F.L. owners are expected to vote in March on the Raiders’ request to move.The junior Jamie Nared had a career-high 27 points, including two free throws with 5.9 seconds that broke a tie, as the Tennessee women’s team ended No. 4 South Carolina’s 29-game home winning streak in the Southeastern Conference with a 76-74 victory.The Gamecocks (18-2, 8-1) rallied from 11 points down in the final six minutes to tie the game at 74 with 14.7 seconds left. Tyasha Harris fouled Nared, who converted the free throws. She also made the winning shot two weeks ago in a 71-69 victory over No. 6 Notre Dame.“Every time we play top teams, every time I see my teammates on the court, playing hard and getting stops, that’s what gets me going,” Nared said.Tennessee (14-7, 5-3) also defeated No. 10 Stanford in December.DUKE DEFEATS NOTRE DAME In a men’s game, Jayson Tatum had 19 points and a career-high 14 rebounds as No. 21 Duke beat No. 20 Notre Dame, 84-74, in South Bend, Ind.Goran Dragic scored 20 points, Dion Waiters added 19 and the host Miami Heat defeated the Nets, 104-96, for their eighth win in a row. Miami outscored the Nets by 33-12 from 3-point range.Bojan Bogdanovic scored 16 points for the Nets, who have lost 17 of their last 18 games. The Nets, who blew an 18-point lead over Miami at home last week, had an 11-point lead late in the first half of this game.A winsome Hungarian herding dog, an ancient African hound and a playful, fur-free terrier are about to get their first shot at the most famous United States canine championship.The pumi, the sloughi and the American hairless terrier will be newcomers at the Westminster Kennel Club dog show next month. More than 2,800 dogs covering as many as 202 breeds are expected at the event.
SAN FRANCISCO — Uber is one step closer to its dream of a self-driving future — with a little help from a new partner.The ride-hailing company announced on Tuesday a partnership with Daimler, under which the German automaker plans to build autonomous vehicles that will operate on Uber’s transportation network.The move marks the first time a major automaker will provide its own self-driving vehicles — built entirely in-house and without Uber’s help — specifically to operate on the ride-hailing company’s network.The agreement is not exclusive, and Daimler may produce autonomous cars for Uber’s competitors, while Uber can also bring other automakers onto what it calls its “open platform” for ride hailing. The two companies said they expected Daimler’s self-driving vehicles to reach Uber’s network “in the coming years.”“Auto manufacturers like Daimler are crucial to our strategy because Uber has no experience making cars — and in fact, making cars is really hard,” Travis Kalanick, Uber’s chief executive, said in a statement. “We can combine Uber’s global ride-sharing network with the world-class vehicles of companies like Daimler, so that Uber riders can have a great experience getting around their cities.”Uber has a history of cooperating with automakers to jointly produce autonomous vehicles. The company has worked with Volvo to develop the XC90, a self-driving sport utility vehicle now being tested in Pittsburgh, near Uber’s self-driving research headquarters. Uber has also modified a fleet of Ford Fusion vehicles, outfitting them with sensors and cameras for autonomous capabilities.Lyft, Uber’s largest competitor in the United States, has also worked closely with a major automaker, General Motors, which is making its own self-driving vehicles for Lyft’s ride-hailing network. Google struck a deal with Fiat Chrysler last year to work on self-driving vehicles.Uber stands to benefit from the Daimler partnership in several ways. Collaborating with automakers could reduce the perception that Uber is a threat to the sales of the auto industry, for example. The company can also bolster its supply of vehicles to pick up a growing base of riders.Uber faced some setbacks with its self-driving experiments last year. It ended a pilot program in San Francisco in December after disagreeing with California’s Department of Motor Vehicles over whether it had the proper permits for the test. Uber plans to begin a similar test in Phoenix in the coming months.“Daimler aims to be a leader in autonomous driving,” Dieter Zetsche, Daimler’s chairman, said in a statement. “Together with Uber, we seek to combine our strengths.”
AMSTERDAM — Pedram Paragomi, a 33-year-old Iranian medical student, was excited about his first trip to the United States. It had taken him a year to arrange a postdoctoral research post at the University of Pittsburgh. When he sat down in Seat 19E, on a Boeing 777 operated by KLM out of Tehran early Saturday, he felt that he had finally fulfilled his dream.“It’s the excitement you feel when you make a long trip to an unknown destination,” Mr. Paragomi said.It was not to be. Mr. Paragomi and six other Iranians remained stranded at Schiphol Airport outside Amsterdam on Tuesday, as their travel ordeal stretched into its fourth day. They were among thousands of people affected by President Trump’s executive order barring from the United States, for 90 days, travelers from seven predominantly Muslim countries: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.The largely spontaneous and spirited protests at American airports over the weekend focused on several aspects of Mr. Trump’s order, including a 120-day ban on all refugees, an indefinite ban on Syrian refugees and an attempt — later blocked by judges — to deport people with valid visas or refugee status who had already arrived in the United States.But many travelers were stuck in various states of limbo abroad — far from the sightlines of American protesters — and their plight has only slowly come to light, in many cases through the efforts of volunteer lawyers who have been working on their cases.A 38-year-old Syrian man said that he had been blocked from flying from Abu Dhabi, in the United Arab Emirates, to the United States, where he had a research position lined up at a university in North Dakota. He said Mr. Trump’s order would affect his career.In an email to The New York Times, he shared a copy of his United States visa — the word CANCELED was written over it — but asked that his name not be used because he did not want to jeopardize his residency status in the United Arab Emirates.In Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, a group of Somali refugees remained at an airport on Tuesday. Ethiopian officials ejected a journalist who tried to speak with them, citing unspecified national security concerns.The seven Iranians stuck in Amsterdam were pulled aside on Saturday by United States agents stationed at the airport. They could not leave the airport because they did not have European visas. Mr. Paragomi likened their plight to that of the character played by Tom Hanks in the 2004 film “The Terminal,” about a man stuck at an airport for nearly a year after a coup in his country made it impossible for him to fly back home.Among the Iranians stuck there were Esaghi Abolghasem and his wife, Kobra Alizadeh, who had left Iran on the same flight as Mr. Paragomi. They were heading for Washington to visit their daughter, whom they had not seen in five years. “My heart was filled with joy,” Mr. Abolghasem said.He was stunned when he heard the news that he could not travel to the United States because of Mr. Trump’s order.“I thought I would get a heart attack,” Mr. Abolghasem said.From Amsterdam, Mr. Paragomi, the medical student, called his cousin in California, who was fast asleep.“He didn’t believe it,” Mr. Paragomi recalled. “He thought I had made a mistake with my papers. He said: ‘Such things don’t happen in the United States. Of course you can travel.’”Nobody knew what to do with the stranded Iranians. After hours of wandering through the immense airport, they met at a transfer point. All had cash, as Iranians generally do not possess international credit cards.“We sat there,” Mr. Abolghasem said. “Nobody did anything.”After a day they started looking for places to showers, but the two airport hotels were expensive. One man in the group went to pray at the airport’s meditation center, where he met an airport official who introduced the group to a Dutch pastor who offered to help.“It’s a very sad situation,” said the pastor, Nico Sarot. “We should be uniting people. Some are building walls, where we should be tearing them down. I’m trying to help them out with the airlines and with lawyers, and also just to be there to listen to their stories, but there is just not so much we can do.”Night after night, they slept in the chairs at the airport. “It was cold, we had no blankets,” Mrs. Alizadeh said. “I felt so sad to suddenly be in this situation.”But there was hope, too. When they saw on the news that across the United States people had started to gather at airports in protest, they told each other to wait.“I was hoping there would be people outside of Amsterdam airport too,” Mr. Paragomi said. “We thought if we stick it out, maybe we can travel to the U.S. as well.”By the time a federal judge in Brooklyn blocked part of Mr. Trump’s order on Saturday night, other Iranians had already given up and flown back home. But the group of seven decided to stay, hoping to be admitted.“Dutch immigration officers started coming over, asking what our plans were,” Mr. Paragomi recalled. “Airline representatives spoke to us, warning that if we didn’t go back, our tickets would become invalid.”On Monday they were all taken to a business class lounge to have showers. They were given food, too. Lawyers from the United States got in touch with them by WhatsApp and email to help out.But by Tuesday afternoon, their resistance had started to crumble. A KLM flight heading for Tehran was leaving, and Mr. Paragomi said on Tuesday morning that he did not know what to do.“I worked so hard for this,” he said of his research post in Pittsburgh. “If there is a slight chance I can go and study in the U.S., I will stay.”Eventually, Mr. Paragomi and four other Iranians took a plane back to Tehran, while two Iranians stayed behind, having received help from an American lawyer based in the Netherlands.As he gathered his belongings for the flight home, Mr. Paragomi asked: “I’m only a student. What did I do wrong?”
Phil Jackson, the Knicks’ president, walked out of a private entryway and to his seat a few minutes before tipoff at Madison Square Garden on Friday night. He had missed the team’s pregame introduction and did not hear the crowd greet Carmelo Anthony when Anthony took the floor as the final Knicks starter to be announced.Instead, Jackson settled into his chair and prepared to watch another installment of a Knicks season in which there has been a lot more intrigue than good basketball.All the main characters were in the arena. Jackson sitting alongside Clarence Gaines Jr., a Knicks vice president and longtime friend. General Manager Steve Mills, sitting a few rows away. Anthony on the court, and his high-powered agent, Leon Rose, in his own seat nearby.That the Knicks went on to defeat the Charlotte Hornets, 110-107, in an entertaining game was almost an aside to the drama surrounding Anthony, their star player, and whether he is on the verge of being traded.It was just the Knicks’ fifth victory in their past 19 games. Anthony scored 18 points but missed a lot of shots, although he did hit a jumper with 13 seconds left that sealed the win. Kristaps Porzingis scored 18 as well, while Courtney Lee had 16 points and helped lead a fourth-quarter comeback.The victory also left the 21-27 Knicks two games behind the Chicago Bulls for the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference.All of that was welcome news for a Knicks team that often appears dysfunctional. But there was a negative development, too, with Derrick Rose leaving the game in the third quarter with a sprained left ankle. He did not return, although X-rays were negative.Still, Rose’s injury fell within the framework of the normal ups and downs for a team — a good victory alongside a worrisome injury. It is the other story line — whether Anthony is staying or leaving — that may keep taking unpredictable and distracting turns for the Knicks until the N.B.A.’s trade deadline in late February.Anthony dodged the latest rumors — specifically that the Los Angeles Clippers may have become the Knicks’ likeliest trade partner — but he let on that he is fully aware of them.“Everywhere you go, even if you don’t hear it, somebody is telling you about it,” Anthony said. “Somebody is saying something. It can be mentally draining, mentally fatiguing.”His teammates are not immune to the trade talk, either. Brandon Jennings said he was inundated by notifications every time he looked at his phone, with each N.B.A. app he has downloaded serving him the latest nugget of trade possibilities. He does not want to see Anthony traded, he said, but the rumors create uncertainty for everyone on the team.“It’s kind of just like, what’s really going on?” he said.“We need him,” he added in reference to Anthony. “We need him to have his confidence, we need him to not worry about outside stuff. Just prove everybody wrong and let’s go make the playoffs.”On Friday, Doc Rivers, the Clippers’ coach and president, did not deny that his team had discussions with the Knicks about Anthony. It is believed that the Clippers and Cleveland Cavaliers are teams for whom Anthony would waive his no-trade clause.Knicks Coach Jeff Hornacek said Friday he had addressed the trade rumors with his players and maintained it would not affect them. He also said he sent Anthony a reassuring text message Thursday night when Anthony was not named as a reserve on the Eastern Conference All-Star squad.Anthony was disappointed to miss out on All-Star weekend, which has served as something of a reprieve during the course of many disappointing seasons in New York. This time around, however, he will have to make do with a week of downtime.That is likely to be less stressful than what he is generally encountering these days, with his future unclear. While he was mostly cheered by the crowd on Friday night, there were moments where he was booed lustily — once after missing a 3-pointer, another time after failing to hit a turnaround jump shot.“I enjoyed that,” he said afterward with a rueful smile.Whether the boos were of the spur-of-the-moment type or a reflection of some larger fan discontent with Anthony remains to be seen. But if the Knicks needed a reminder of a relationship that soured over time, Patrick Ewing, a former organization cornerstone, was on the Hornets’ bench as an assistant coach.Ewing had been traded away in an unceremonious exit from the Knicks, and Anthony sees him as a peer in understanding the pressures of playing in New York. But Ewing had no interest in wading into those waters Friday night. When asked about Anthony, he demurred.“I’m staying out of this,” he said, throwing his hands up in the air and walking away.
KUNDUZ, Afghanistan — The Taliban controlled the nearby streets and bullets were popping in the dark when Dr. Marzia Salam Yaftali’s neighbors in Kunduz City turned to her for help.Their relative had gone into labor with twins and was having trouble, the streets to the hospital were blocked, and Dr. Yaftali was their best hope. With urban battle all around, she took the risk of leaving her two young children at home to try to save three lives.But on that evening last fall, the doctor did not feel like a hero — she felt guilty. Her place was at Kunduz Regional Hospital, where she was the chief doctor, directing her staff members as they handled a wave of casualties. But they had begged her to stay home, feeling she would be at risk if the Taliban or even the militiamen fighting them found a woman in charge.“I still struggle with that feeling — why I was not able to come to the hospital that day,” Dr. Yaftali said in an interview at the hospital months later. “I am still uncomfortable.”Kunduz was already known for danger to medical workers, after an American warplane bombed its best hospital to ruins during a previous Taliban siege, in 2015, leaving Kunduz Regional Hospital as its only significant care facility.For female health workers in Afghanistan, the risk is compounded by the traditional beliefs of a society that still struggles with the notion of women in the workplace.The Taliban, despite their statements that they have reconsidered their position on female education and women in the work force, have not behaved that way in practice.The siege last fall was the second time in a year that the Taliban had invaded Kunduz City. The first time, in fall 2015, women in prominent roles reported being methodically targeted. And the insurgents have never reconciled one of the central contradictions of their regime in the 1990s: The Taliban government strictly insisted that women be treated only by female doctors, yet they barred girls from going to school.The 300-bed Kunduz Regional Hospital was built on German donations but is run by the Afghan government. Dr. Yaftali, a gynecologist, was at home the morning of Oct. 3 when the Taliban entered the city.“I called the director of the hospital. I told him that I would come to the hospital even if it rains fire,” Dr. Yaftali said. “He told me: ‘How will you come to the hospital? There is no way to get here.’”The director, a burly surgeon, Mohammed Naim Mangal, expressed another fear over the phone: Many of the staff members had fled already, and Dr. Yaftali would be the only woman if she made it to the hospital. There was risk to her not only from the extremist Taliban, but also from the unruly militias fighting on behalf of the government.At the hospital, about two dozen staff members remained, working nonstop for more than a week. They ran out of food quickly, surviving on boiled rice. Their trips to the medicine depot around the corner from the main building were daunting operations that brought them under fire several times.Their task became only more difficult after mortar shells hit the hospital and patients had to be moved from some of the rooms to the hallways. At the peak of the fighting, hospital employees were treating more than 300 wounded people.Stuck at home, Dr. Yaftali essentially took over the public relations campaign for a hospital under fire. She spoke to radio stations and newspapers and regularly updated her Facebook page with urgent calls to both sides not to fire on the hospital, and notices to the public about which facilities were still functioning.“Others in Kunduz were looking for water, and I was after a liter of gas — to make sure I could turn on the generator to charge my phone so I am updated on what is happening at the hospital,” she recalled.Then, one night around 9 o’clock, she heard a knock at her gate and the voices of her neighbors outside. Their pregnant relative, a 30-year-old named Fatima, was in intense pain and desperately needed help.Dr. Yaftali said she had first examined Fatima, who had traveled to Kunduz from an outlying a district, a couple weeks before and knew that natural birth would be difficult. One of the babies was large and in what she described as “shoulder presentation.”The streets outside were a battlefield. Both sides fired at anyone caught in between.“I was nervous — how could I go to the house of the neighbor, and their house was just 100 or 200 meters away from mine?” Dr. Yaftali said. “On the other hand, if I don’t go to their house, what will the mother do? She came to our area and close to me, and she hoped I would help her, I would take care of her.”She braved the street, and when she got to the house, Fatima was already giving birth on the floor to the first child. The second child, however, was stuck, and the mother was in agony.Dr. Yaftali intervened to try to reposition the baby for a safer delivery. But her patient’s pain was intolerable.“I don’t have any medical equipment with me — my hands are empty,” Dr. Yaftali recalled. “I worked for them like a local midwife. There was no place to do a cesarean or an operation. Professionally, a cesarean was needed.”The provincial police chief was called, and he sent an armored vehicle to the house to transport Fatima to the hospital. But the woman’s relatives would not let her go without them, and would not go themselves because of the risk: At the time, civilians were frequently hit by crossfire, and reports of corpses being left on the streets were circulating.“Their logic was this: We can sacrifice one mother, but we cannot sacrifice several family members by going with you to the hospital,” Dr. Yaftali said.So she sent the police chief’s armored car back to the hospital to bring drugs and medical equipment, and she tried again to help deliver the baby. But she knew the second infant was lost, and there was little she could do other than try to reduce Fatima’s risk and pain.Dr. Yaftali went back home to her two children, the youngest just 6 months old. And in the morning, after the fighting quieted a little, Fatima was able to go to the hospital for treatment, but with just one of her children alive.“It was very painful for me. The scene was not tolerable, as I saw a child dying in the womb of the mother, and I was not able to help him, to help him even a bit,” Dr. Yaftali said. “That was the darkest night, and I will never forget.”After the Taliban were cleared out, Dr. Yaftali returned to her work. Her Facebook page, after a last plea to all the hospital workers who had fled the city to return, returned to her usual dose of medical advice to her readers.To this day, though, she is racked by remorse.“The day the fighting quieted down, my suggestion to the hospital and the Ministry of Health was that the first thing I do is resign,” Dr. Yaftali said.The officials turned down her resignation, though, praising her service from home and the fact that she had helped put a system in place at the hospital that had held up even in her absence.Fatima, for one, will never forget her.“In a time that no one could be relied on, the doctor came, and she went through so much trouble with me,” Fatima said in an interview. “How can I not be thankful to her? Everyone was trying to get out of Kunduz, and Dr. Marzia came to help me.”
KUNDUZ, Afghanistan — The Taliban controlled the nearby streets and bullets were popping in the dark when Dr. Marzia Salam Yaftali’s neighbors in Kunduz City turned to her for help.Their relative had gone into labor with twins and was having trouble, the streets to the hospital were blocked, and Dr. Yaftali was their best hope. With urban battle all around, she took the risk of leaving her two young children at home to try to save three lives.But on that evening last fall, the doctor did not feel like a hero — she felt guilty. Her place was at Kunduz Regional Hospital, where she was the chief doctor, directing her staff members as they handled a wave of casualties. But they had begged her to stay home, feeling she would be at risk if the Taliban or even the militiamen fighting them found a woman in charge.“I still struggle with that feeling — why I was not able to come to the hospital that day,” Dr. Yaftali said in an interview at the hospital months later. “I am still uncomfortable.”Kunduz was already known for danger to medical workers, after an American warplane bombed its best hospital to ruins during a previous Taliban siege, in 2015, leaving Kunduz Regional Hospital as its only significant care facility.For female health workers in Afghanistan, the risk is compounded by the traditional beliefs of a society that still struggles with the notion of women in the workplace.The Taliban, despite their statements that they have reconsidered their position on female education and women in the work force, have not behaved that way in practice.The siege last fall was the second time in a year that the Taliban had invaded Kunduz City. The first time, in fall 2015, women in prominent roles reported being methodically targeted. And the insurgents have never reconciled one of the central contradictions of their regime in the 1990s: The Taliban government strictly insisted that women be treated only by female doctors, yet they barred girls from going to school.The 300-bed Kunduz Regional Hospital was built on German donations but is run by the Afghan government. Dr. Yaftali, a gynecologist, was at home the morning of Oct. 3 when the Taliban entered the city.“I called the director of the hospital. I told him that I would come to the hospital even if it rains fire,” Dr. Yaftali said. “He told me: ‘How will you come to the hospital? There is no way to get here.’”The director, a burly surgeon, Mohammed Naim Mangal, expressed another fear over the phone: Many of the staff members had fled already, and Dr. Yaftali would be the only woman if she made it to the hospital. There was risk to her not only from the extremist Taliban, but also from the unruly militias fighting on behalf of the government.At the hospital, about two dozen staff members remained, working nonstop for more than a week. They ran out of food quickly, surviving on boiled rice. Their trips to the medicine depot around the corner from the main building were daunting operations that brought them under fire several times.Their task became only more difficult after mortar shells hit the hospital and patients had to be moved from some of the rooms to the hallways. At the peak of the fighting, hospital employees were treating more than 300 wounded people.Stuck at home, Dr. Yaftali essentially took over the public relations campaign for a hospital under fire. She spoke to radio stations and newspapers and regularly updated her Facebook page with urgent calls to both sides not to fire on the hospital, and notices to the public about which facilities were still functioning.“Others in Kunduz were looking for water, and I was after a liter of gas — to make sure I could turn on the generator to charge my phone so I am updated on what is happening at the hospital,” she recalled.Then, one night around 9 o’clock, she heard a knock at her gate and the voices of her neighbors outside. Their pregnant relative, a 30-year-old named Fatima, was in intense pain and desperately needed help.Dr. Yaftali said she had first examined Fatima, who had traveled to Kunduz from an outlying a district, a couple weeks before and knew that natural birth would be difficult. One of the babies was large and in what she described as “shoulder presentation.”The streets outside were a battlefield. Both sides fired at anyone caught in between.“I was nervous — how could I go to the house of the neighbor, and their house was just 100 or 200 meters away from mine?” Dr. Yaftali said. “On the other hand, if I don’t go to their house, what will the mother do? She came to our area and close to me, and she hoped I would help her, I would take care of her.”She braved the street, and when she got to the house, Fatima was already giving birth on the floor to the first child. The second child, however, was stuck, and the mother was in agony.Dr. Yaftali intervened to try to reposition the baby for a safer delivery. But her patient’s pain was intolerable.“I don’t have any medical equipment with me — my hands are empty,” Dr. Yaftali recalled. “I worked for them like a local midwife. There was no place to do a cesarean or an operation. Professionally, a cesarean was needed.”The provincial police chief was called, and he sent an armored vehicle to the house to transport Fatima to the hospital. But the woman’s relatives would not let her go without them, and would not go themselves because of the risk: At the time, civilians were frequently hit by crossfire, and reports of corpses being left on the streets were circulating.“Their logic was this: We can sacrifice one mother, but we cannot sacrifice several family members by going with you to the hospital,” Dr. Yaftali said.So she sent the police chief’s armored car back to the hospital to bring drugs and medical equipment, and she tried again to help deliver the baby. But she knew the second infant was lost, and there was little she could do other than try to reduce Fatima’s risk and pain.Dr. Yaftali went back home to her two children, the youngest just 6 months old. And in the morning, after the fighting quieted a little, Fatima was able to go to the hospital for treatment, but with just one of her children alive.“It was very painful for me. The scene was not tolerable, as I saw a child dying in the womb of the mother, and I was not able to help him, to help him even a bit,” Dr. Yaftali said. “That was the darkest night, and I will never forget.”After the Taliban were cleared out, Dr. Yaftali returned to her work. Her Facebook page, after a last plea to all the hospital workers who had fled the city to return, returned to her usual dose of medical advice to her readers.To this day, though, she is racked by remorse.“The day the fighting quieted down, my suggestion to the hospital and the Ministry of Health was that the first thing I do is resign,” Dr. Yaftali said.The officials turned down her resignation, though, praising her service from home and the fact that she had helped put a system in place at the hospital that had held up even in her absence.Fatima, for one, will never forget her.“In a time that no one could be relied on, the doctor came, and she went through so much trouble with me,” Fatima said in an interview. “How can I not be thankful to her? Everyone was trying to get out of Kunduz, and Dr. Marzia came to help me.”
LANZAROTE, Spain — In the dim underwater light, a man lies on a funeral pyre, his arms outstretched. He is not a real person, but a statue created by Jason deCaires Taylor, a British sculptor whose works form Europe’s first underwater museum, here on Lanzarote.The figure is also meant to convey the renewal of life, as his pyre becomes a new habitat for fish and other sea creatures.Mr. Taylor’s statues — some 300 of them — depict other life-or-death issues, including one of a boat filled with refugees that evokes Europe’s migration crisis. He also addresses less critical social issues, like the obsession with selfies.The use of art as an artificial reef is meant to raise awareness of the destruction of ocean reefs around the world. He uses concrete, fiberglass rods and other materials to make his installations both resistant to corrosion and pH neutral.“Sculptures are normally seen as static and monumental, while these are always living in the moment,” Mr. Taylor said during a recent interview in his seaside studio. “The more texture the pieces have, the more they transform” underwater.One striking piece looks like President Trump playing on a seesaw. But the life-size concrete figure is actually sitting on an oil pump. Businessmen have been “treating the world like a playground,” Mr. Taylor said.The resemblance to Mr. Trump was accidental, he said, since the statues were cast from residents or visitors to the island.Another installation is a 100-foot-long fence with a gate that seems pointless, since a diver can easily swim above it.Though Mr. Taylor started his Lanzarote project before Mr. Trump promised to build a wall on the Mexican border, he said Mr. Trump “seems to be very much about protectionism and divisions, the kind of ideas that I wanted this wall to show as being absurd.”He added, “Our attitude is to build borders and claim ownership of the world and its natural resources, when the three-dimensional natural world really doesn’t work like this.”It took more than two years to make all the works and submerge them 45 feet into the sand below. The Museo Atlántico opened officially on Jan. 10, and already feather worms and sponge are starting to cover the statues. Details like clothing buttons are designed to disappear after a month.Scuba divers pay an entrance fee of 12 euros, about $12.80, and are accompanied by guides certified by the museum, which is about 1,000 feet offshore. Snorkelers can also get access, but they have limited visibility because the statues are so far below the surface.Since the political turmoil in the Arab world began in 2011, Lanzarote and the other Spanish islands of the Canary archipelago off the coast of Morocco have attracted visitors who previously traveled to countries like Egypt and Tunisia during Europe’s winter months. Over all, Spain welcomed a record 75.3 million tourists last year, 10 percent more than in 2015.The museum is part of a cultural project dating to the 1960s and inspired mostly by César Manrique, an artist who turned the volcanic island into his canvas. Manrique designed houses, statues, restaurants and cultural centers often carved into the lava rock.Manrique started to transform Lanzarote in the final decade of Gen. Francisco Franco’s dictatorship, when the regime used tourism to improve Spain’s economy and end its international isolation. Yet Manrique was a staunch environmentalist, opposed to mass tourism projects like hotel resorts.Many of his works were inspired by local people like Eloíno Perdomo Placeres, who grew more than 2,000 varieties of cactuses around his home and donated seeds to help Manrique build his own cactus garden nearby.Mr. Perdomo, 86, grows cactuses as a hobby, in a village that was once economically reliant on cochineal. Cochineal, an insect that grows on cactuses, produces carmine, a red pigment used to dye food, beverages and cosmetics.“Tourism has brought vitality to an island that, apart from cochineal, really used to have nothing except desert and poverty,” Mr. Perdomo said.Manrique died in a traffic accident in 1992 on one of the roads where he had successfully campaigned for the banning of advertising billboards that could spoil Lanzarote’s landscape.“Manrique brought ideas that perhaps seemed crazy and elitist, since there was then not even running water around here,” said Marci Acuña, the mayor of Haría, a village where Manrique designed his final home and work studio. “But we now have to thank him for preserving Lanzarote’s natural beauty.”The underwater museum is off the south coast of the island, close to most of Lanzarote’s cruise ship and package tourism infrastructure, including an animal park that has generated opposition from environmentalists after it took in dolphins from German aquariums in November. Dolphins can also be viewed in open waters around Lanzarote.Mr. Taylor, 42, studied arts in London, but his underwater work has also drawn on his other skills. He worked as a diving instructor and underwater photographer, as well as a stage rigger, which, he said, taught him how to anchor statues on a seabed.As a teenager, he sprayed graffiti on subway cars, which would then be wiped clean the next day.Urban graffiti is “a lot of labor that can then be gone forever,” he said, just like statues once they lie at the bottom of the ocean. “You learn the idea of change, lack of control and not being precious about your work.”Mr. Taylor has completed similar projects on the other side of the Atlantic. In 2010, he opened an underwater museum off Cancún, Mexico, where, he said, the warmer water and larger natural reef are allowing more marine life to develop than in Lanzarote.Ben Hutchinson, a British diving instructor who moved to Lanzarote nine years ago, said he had received several requests from people wanting to dive the underwater museum. But he offered a note of caution, saying it remained to be seen whether the museum could reach both its tourism and conservation goals.“I’m here because of tourism, as is almost everyone else working in Lanzarote,” he said, “but there is also no point pretending that attracting more people doesn’t normally disturb sea life.”
At the start of this year, the improv comedy powerhouse Upright Citizens Brigade Theater made a change in policy that went mostly unnoticed. For the first time since 2008, it raised ticket prices.At its four theaters on the East and West coasts, most of the 100 or so shows a week cost $2 more: It’s now common to pay $7 on weekdays, while the prime weekend shows are $12. (There are still cheaper ones, including a few that are free.) While these new prices remain a deal compared with most other live entertainment in New York, the increase represents an important shift at the Upright Citizens Brigade, an industry leader with outsized influence, not just in jump-starting careers but also in the art and business of comedy.One reason the change matters is that keeping prices low has long been the theater’s best defense of its controversial practice of using exclusively free labor onstage. While other improv centers like Second City and the Groundlings, which loom large in Chicago and Los Angeles, charge more for tickets, Upright Citizens Brigade is built on a different financial model, one that seems to promise to save money by not paying performers and charging consumers less.The reality of this bargain is more complex, particularly as the theater has grown into a mature institution. In the past dozen years, it has bought or leased buildings in New York and Los Angeles (there are training centers in both cities), emphasizing growth and earning revenue through corporate work and its school. According to a profile of the company in The New Yorker last year, Upright Citizens Brigade, whose classes have long been its profit center, has increased enrollment, teaching about 12,000 students last year. Add money from branded content and workshops (last year it trained 6,000 businesspeople about the improv technique “yes, and”) without any change in artist pay, and what becomes clear is that the theater is simply and firmly committed to not compensating its performers.The ticket price increase is also part of a general trend of rising prices in live comedy. That’s due partly to the growing number of stand-up shows in arenas and theaters, which can be as expensive as pop concerts. New York clubs have also taken advantage of the comedy boom to charge more for stand-up. The top price at the Comedy Cellar has doubled since 2000 to $24 with a two-drink minimum, while ticket prices at Gotham and Carolines have also gone up, as has the cost of movies, theater and other entertainment in this expensive city.The popularity of Upright Citizens Brigade, a key player in the New York alternative comedy scene in the late 1990s, was built partly on the idea of the $5 show. When it moved to its first permanent home in 1999, after years of playing spaces around the city, all its shows cost that much. The price stayed there for weekdays until now. (Weekend shows crept up over the years, ending at $10 for nearly a decade.) The reputation for $5 comedy (and no drink minimums) helped distinguish the theater, drawing crowds of young audiences and considerable buzz. In a 2003 interview, Matt Besser, a founder and a current leader of Upright Citizens Brigade, said he always wanted to keep the price lower than that of a movie ticket.In an era when a night on Broadway can cost hundreds, even thousands of dollars, Upright Citizens Brigade shows remains cheap. But as the institution expands, it’s worth asking: If $12 shows sell out, why won’t they bump up tickets to the still reasonable $15 next year? Why not inch toward $30 or $40? (Upright Citizens Brigade did not respond to questions about the reason for the price increase.)If this slippery slope scenario sounds paranoid, consider what has happened to the economics of live theater in New York. Those stratospheric prices also began with small increases that seemed too measly to complain about, and now they have transformed the art form into something that to many people seems inaccessible and culturally marginal.Broadway ticket prices received the most media attention, but the more disturbing shift might be in smaller houses that were once, like Upright Citizens Brigade is now, considered the affordable alternatives popular among younger crowds. According to a survey in 1981, the average ticket at Off and Off Off Broadway theaters then was $5.93 (just over $15 adjusted for inflation). Now, the prices of mainstream Off Broadway houses often approach or even exceed those on Broadway.The impact in the American theater has not been just about dollars and cents, or accessibility, or the makeup of the audience, as the playwright Arthur Miller once explained to me in an interview. The reason high ticket prices are important, he argued, is that they change what is seen onstage, as artists inevitably create work with the older, wealthier audience in mind.Stand-up and modern improvisation are younger genres than the theater, and they lack powerful labor organizations like Actors’ Equity to fight for higher pay or, depending on your perspective, to keep costs high. But some of the market pressures are the same: A huge pool of young talent willing to work for experience and the chance of a big break, a large urban audience that came to New York partly for its live entertainment, and theaters with limited capacity.Producing comedy is relatively cheap — with tiny casts and a set that can be little more than a microphone — so it will never be as expensive as theater. But it’s worth remembering that one of the great appeals of live comedy today, particularly for young people, is its cost. And if you want to understand the rise and fall of art forms, the old cliché holds true: Follow the money.
Facebook has tried to ban it. Google has attempted to outsmart it.But no matter what these tech giants do, people’s use of software to block digital advertising — often the lifeblood of companies’ online business models — keeps gaining traction worldwide.In total, roughly 11 percent of internet users globally relied on ad blockers to avoid some form of digital advertising last year when surfing the web. That equates to more than 600 million devices, from smartphones to traditional computers.The figure represents a 30 percent annual increase, according to a new report published on Wednesday by PageFair, a start-up that helps companies recoup some of this lost advertising revenue, which now totals tens of billions of dollars each year.By using software to block digital advertising, critics say, users are breaking an unwritten pact with websites and digital publishers, many of which generate the bulk of their revenue from these ads.Yet industry watchers say such ad-blocking digital tools have garnered a mainstream following, particularly across the developing world where their use in countries like Indonesia has already reached roughly two-thirds of the internet population.“There’s been a massive surge of mobile ad-blockers in these countries that no one anticipated,” said Sean Blanchfield, chief executive of PageFair. “In the West, I expect the same trend to blindside us in the very near future.”This rise of ad blockers has not gone unnoticed by the advertising industry.In August, for instance, Facebook — one of the world’s largest purveyors of online ads — tried to block people from using such software on its social network.The company’s efforts, though, led to an arms race with tech start-ups offering new ad-blocking tools, as both sides have tried to outmatch each other.“Ad blocking is a detriment to the entire advertising ecosystem,” Paul Verna, an analyst at the research firm eMarketer, said in a statement. “The best way for the industry to tackle this problem is to deliver compelling ad experiences that consumers won’t want to block.”Across the developing world, ad-blocking software is primarily used by people to save on often costly data packages by removing video and other data-hungry advertisements from mobile websites.More than 90 percent of all ad-blocking on mobile devices worldwide still takes place in the Asia-Pacific region, according to the PageFair report. And last year, such software was used on 380 million smartphones and tablets around the globe, a 39 percent yearly increase.In contrast, the vast majority of ad-blocking on traditional computers, whose use similarly jumped 17 percent last year, to 236 million devices, is still restricted mainly to the United States and Europe. In those regions, people’s efforts to block malware disguised as online advertising has been the main motivation for downloading ad blockers.“In the U.S., ad-blocking on mobile is slightly immature,” Mr. Blanchfield said. “But there’s no doubt that people’s use of it will skyrocket.”
The red carpet these days is where actresses woo fashion brands, fashion brands woo actresses, and actresses preen for preening’s sake. But what if a celebrity decided that for this awards season, she would have a higher purpose?Viola Davis was a radiant beam of sunshine as she walked the red carpet at the Golden Globes in a one-shoulder Michael Kors sequined gown. The silhouette was unadorned yet compelling, and the color as bright as her winning grin: She went home with the award for best supporting actress in a motion picture, for her role in “Fences.” (She was also nominated for a Screen Actors Guild Award; the ceremony takes place on Jan. 29.) The look defines her red carpet strategy, said Elizabeth Stewart, her longtime stylist. “We wanted to be a symbol of hope in dark times,” Ms. Stewart said. “We wanted to be strong, simple and bold.”As so she was in the sea-foam sequined column with a sporty racer-back cut, also by Michael Kors, that she wore at the Critics’ Choice Awards last month. Once again, the formula was a double winner. Vogue.com hailed the gown as one of the best of the evening, and Ms. Davis nabbed the best supporting actress prize.Though far from a clothes horse, the actress has firm preferences. The white Christian Siriano dress with laser-cut sleeves that she wore to receive her star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame this month “really sums up what she likes,” Ms. Stewart said. “She likes fitted, clean and graphic. Also, she zipped right into it; the fitting took five minutes. There’s not a lot of agonizing over choices with Viola.”Given Ms. Davis’s roles on the big and small screens, and her writing and producing projects, Ms. Stewart said that they usually do fittings in Ms. Davis’s trailer on the set of the television series “How to Get Away With Murder,” which stars Ms. Davis. “Almost every major decision has happened in that trailer,” Ms. Stewart said. “We go there on her lunch break, and we fit in 25 looks in five minutes. If people only knew! The look gets parsed so much afterward.”Because Ms. Davis is not the typical sample size, she has formed relationships with certain designers for her custom dresses. Mr. Kors is a reliable choice, but so is a newer discovery, the lesser-known Cinq à Sept label. Last month, she wore a sleek yet flirty white Cinq à Sept sundress for an appearance on “The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon” and a black gown with a cutout and a fuchsia accent at a “Fences” screening in New York. “A lot of fashion is so elaborate and ornate, which doesn’t work well for Viola,” Ms. Stewart said. “A clean and simple fashion brand is actually hard to find.”Occasionally, Ms. Davis will choose a more feminine aesthetic. She may experiment with print, as she did with a pair of dresses she wore in September: a poppy-red floral sheath by Michael Kors at the Rape Foundation Annual Brunch, and a green zigzag-patterned knee-skimming design by Jason Wu for a visit to “Jimmy Kimmel Live.” She also tapped Jason Wu for a blue brocade cocktail dress for the Television Critics Association’s summer press tour. With the looser skirt, “it’s more ladylike, but it still has a pretty clean line,” Ms. Stewart said.If the mood strikes, Ms. Davis “likes to play every once in a while,” Ms. Stewart said, pointing to a hot-pink A-line Marchesa gown she wore to the Emmy Awards last September and a gray lace Vivienne Westwood dress at the “Suicide Squad” premiere in August. There she displayed a rare glimpse of cleavage.But don’t expect the bust line to dip much lower. “We like to contain the girls whenever possible,” Ms. Stewart said, laughing and adding that Ms. Davis would get a kick out of reading that in print. “Keep them safe.”
PARIS — The Iranian director of “The Salesman,” which is nominated for an Academy Award for best foreign-language film, won’t attend next month’s Oscars ceremony. The Metropolitan Museum of Art worries that exhibitions, archaeological surveys and excavations with institutions in the Middle East will have to be canceled or curtailed. And the Sundance Institute Theater Program may have to scale back its exchange program with artists from the Middle East and North Africa.As President Trump’s executive order seeking to keep many foreigners from entering the United States sowed widespread confusion throughout the immigration system and at airports around the globe, cultural figures and institutions were calculating how the new policies would harm their art and missions.“Scholarly exchanges and international collaborations are key to our ongoing work, and we are very concerned that a number of programs we have in place could be threatened, just at a time when the world needs more, not less, exchange and mutual understanding,” said Thomas P. Campbell, the director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.The executive order, which was signed by Mr. Trump on Friday, blocks entry into the United States for 90 days for citizens of seven predominantly Muslim countries: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen. It also suspends entry of all refugees for 120 days and bars Syrian refugees indefinitely. Artists — and citizens — from the affected countries legally residing in the United States said they did not dare leave for fear of being denied re-entry.In the most high-profile case, Asghar Farhadi, who directed “The Salesman,” said in a statement on Sunday to The New York Times that he would not attend the Oscars ceremony next month even if he were granted an exception to the visa ban.He had planned to attend the Feb. 26 ceremony and to use the megaphone the Oscars provides to call attention to a visa ban he called “unjust.” But new regulations announced on Friday presented “ifs and buts which are in no way acceptable to me even if exceptions were to be made for my trip,” he said.In his statement, Mr. Farhadi, whose film “A Separation” won an Oscar for best foreign-language film in 2012, said he condemned “the unjust conditions forced upon some of my compatriots and the citizens of the other six countries trying to legally enter the United States of America and hope that the current situation will not give rise to further divide between nations.”Mr. Farhadi’s film centers on a Tehran couple starring in an amateur production of Arthur Miller’s “Death of a Salesman,” and includes subtle critiques of censorship in Iran. The film’s screenplay had to be approved by the Iranian government, which also chose the film as the country’s official submission to the Academy Awards.Marcel Mettelsiefen, the director of “Watani: My Homeland,” an Oscar-nominated documentary, said the film’s Syrian protagonist, Hala Kamil, would not be able to travel to the Oscars ceremony because she has a Syrian and a German refugee passport.The film follows Ms. Kamil and her children as they seek asylum in Germany. “It is very sad she cannot come,” Mr. Mettelsiefen said. “She is the star of the movie.”Ms. Kamil has been a frequent visitor to the United States, even giving a speech on the plight of refugees at the United Nations in August.Hussein Hassan, the Kurdish director of the feature “Reseba — The Dark Wind,” which was to have its North American premiere at the Miami Film Festival next month, said he had withdrawn his visa application to protest Mr. Trump’s policy.The film’s producer and one of its screenwriters, Mehmet Aktas, said the movie, a drama about a bride-to-be who survives an attack by ISIS on her village, showed that not all Muslims are terrorists. Festival organizers have said they still planned to show “The Dark Wind.”Philip Himberg, the artistic director of the Sundance Institute Theater Program, said he feared the visa ban would shut down a fruitful workshop exchange for theater professionals from the Middle East and North Africa. Since it started in 2012, about 60 Arabic-language professionals have attended the workshops in Utah, Wyoming, Berlin and Morocco.“It shatters my heart,” Mr. Himberg said. He added that the program was supported by a grant from the Doris Duke Charitable Trust, and the Sundance Institute didn’t know what would happen if the artists the grant was intended to bring to the United States could no longer travel there.The ban is also expected to affect museums. Curators at the Metropolitan Museum of Art said the order could disrupt or limit its loans to and from the affected countries and would restrict travel by colleagues and artists to the United States for education, research, fellowships, workshops, conferences and other training. They said it might also scuttle their hoped-for archaeological surveys and excavations in partnership with Iraq and Iran, and a joint publication project on Nishapur with Iran.Mr. Trump’s move is “particularly ironic, given that the earliest formulation of what we recognize today as the concept of habeas corpus was expressed in the Codex Hammurabi, an ancient Iraqi monument about justice, set up in public so that all citizens could access their rights,” said Kim Benzel, the curator in charge of the museum’s Department of Ancient Near Eastern Art.“It was one of the many contributions of Iraq to the world, and in this case, to democracy itself,” she added. “Where and how did things go so wrong?”A spokeswoman from the Los Angeles County Museum of Art said: “We have no idea yet how this might affect us, but we do have at least one important exhibition of art mostly from Iran that would be impacted by travel restrictions that would make it difficult to do research and work with artists and authors, as well as borrow works of art that would require couriers from collections in Iran.”President Trump’s order has already complicated a coming production of “Hamlet” by Waterwell, a nonprofit theater in New York. One of the actors, Mohammad Aghebatian, an Iranian citizen who trained at Yale, is now in Iran and uncertain whether he will be allowed to return to the United States.“This is completely and utterly un-American,” said Arian Moayed, an actor who is a founder and an artistic director of Waterwell. “He doesn’t know what to do — we’re trying to find him a lawyer.”Shari Rezai, a concert promoter in Los Angeles who specializes in contemporary Persian music and brings artists from Iran and elsewhere to the United States, said she had six shows planned through June, and canceled all of them three days ago, when she heard about the impending ban. She worried that her seven-year-old business was now at risk.“Tonight I have a concert in L.A.,” she said, with an American-born Iranian artist, Fared Shafinury, whose band has some immigrant members. “I’m just so afraid that this is going to be my last concert.”Lawyers are struggling to understand what the visa ban means. “There’s a lot in here that is subject to interpretation,” said Jonathan Ginsburg, an immigration lawyer in Virginia who specializes in visas for artists and performers. He said the language made clear that nationals from the seven countries “appear to be banned for 90 days, even if they have applied for and received a U.S. visa.”He added: “The flip side is that we may not appreciate just how broadly worded these things are until someone decides to interpret them more aggressively.”For now, many artists from affected countries who are legal residents in the United States say they can’t leave the country for fear of not being able to return. Shahpour Pouyan, an Iranian artist living in New York under a green card whose work is at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, said he would be unable to travel to Toronto for a group exhibit or to Paris for a solo exhibition in March.“I am stuck here. I can’t leave the country and as an artist it means I can’t make shows and present my works internationally,” he wrote in an email message. “This is such a mess.”
After a spate of deaths from bird flu among patients in China, the World Health Organization has warned all countries to watch for outbreaks in poultry flocks and to promptly report any human cases.Several strains of avian flu are spreading in Europe and Asia this winter, but the most worrisome at present is an H7N9 strain that has circulated in China every winter since 2013.China has reported over 225 human cases since September, an unusually high number. The nation’s Lunar New Year vacation starts soon, and as it does, live poultry shipments increase, and holiday travelers often spread the flu.The fatality rate is not yet known, because some victims are still hospitalized. But Dr. Margaret Chan, the health organization’s director general, said this week that China had had more than 1,000 cases in the last four years, of which 39 percent were fatal.“All countries must detect and report human cases promptly,” she said. “We cannot afford to miss the early signals.”The flu typically infects people who raise, sell, slaughter or cook poultry, but human-to-human transmission is suspected in two cases that worry health officials. Both were older men with a history of poultry contact. One apparently infected a daughter who cared for him, and the other his hospital roommate.Hong Kong’s health department this week warned residents traveling to mainland China to avoid live poultry markets. More than 9 percent of samples from markets in nearby Guangdong Province contained H7N9 virus, a “substantial” reading, the department said.Swabs are typically taken in cages, sewage gutters, feeding troughs, and chopping and de-feathering machines.Since November, nearly 40 countries have reported finding potentially dangerous flu strains in poultry flocks or in captured or dead wild birds. They include a new H5N6 strain, H5N8 and H5N5.There have also been sporadic cases of H5N1, a strain with a 60 percent fatality rate that caused great alarm more than a decade ago. It has caused almost 400 confirmed deaths since 2003, but has not evolved the ability to transmit easily between people.Since the highly contagious but relatively mild H1N1 “swine flu” circled the globe in 2009, “the world is better prepared for the next influenza pandemic,” Dr. Chan said, “but not at all well enough.”
When the German engineering company Siemens Energy opened a gas turbine production plant in Charlotte, N.C., some 10,000 people showed up at a job fair for 800 positions. But fewer than 15 percent of the applicants were able to pass a reading, writing and math screening test geared toward a ninth-grade education.“In our factories, there’s a computer about every 20 or 30 feet,” said Eric Spiegel, who recently retired as president and chief executive of Siemens U.S.A. “People on the plant floor need to be much more skilled than they were in the past. There are no jobs for high school graduates at Siemens today.”Ditto at John Deere dealerships, which repair million-dollar farming machinery filled with several dozen computers. Fixing tractors and grain harvesters now requires advanced math and comprehension skills and the ability to solve problems on the fly. “The toolbox is now a computer,” said Andy Winnett, who directs the company’s agricultural program at Walla Walla Community College in Washington.These are the types of good-paying jobs that President Trump, blaming trade deals for the decline in manufacturing, has promised to bring back to working-class communities. But according to a study by Ball State University, nearly nine in 10 jobs that disappeared since 2000 were lost to automation in the decades-long march to an information-driven economy, not to workers in other countries.Even if those jobs returned, a high school diploma is simply no longer good enough to fill them. Yet rarely discussed in the political debate over lost jobs are the academic skills needed for today’s factory-floor positions, and the pathways through education that lead to them.Many believe that the solution is for more Americans to go to college. But the college-for-all movement, which got its start in the 1970s as American manufacturing began its decline, is often conflated with earning a bachelor’s degree.Many high school students rush off to four-year campuses not ready for the academic work or not sure why they are there. Government data show that 44 percent of new graduates enroll directly in a four-year college, but based on recent trends, less than half of them will earn a degree within four years. And though two-year colleges have long been identified as the institutions that fill the job-training role, some 80 percent of community college students say they intend to go on for a bachelor’s degree, or they leave with generic associate degrees that are of little value in the job market.Students in the United States are offered few feasible routes to middle-skill careers — jobs that require more education than a high school diploma but typically not a bachelor’s degree. The National Skills Coalition, a nonprofit organization, calculates that middle-skill jobs — in computer technology, health care, construction, high-skill manufacturing and other fields — account for 54 percent of the labor market, but only 44 percent of workers are sufficiently trained.“The bachelor’s degree is the gold standard, but the higher education system has to create ways for students to choose training and education in their own time and sequence,” said Anthony P. Carnevale, the director of the Center on Education and the Workforce at Georgetown University. “Higher ed,” he said, “needs to respect the dignity of labor.”Faced with a skills gap, employers are increasingly working with community colleges to provide students with both the academic education needed to succeed in today’s work force and the specific hands-on skills to get a job in their companies. John Deere, for example, has designed a curriculum and donated farm equipment to several community colleges to train technicians for its dealer network. About 15 to 20 students come through the program at Walla Walla each semester. Because they are sponsored by a John Deere dealership, where the students work for half the program, most graduate in two years with a job in hand. Technicians start at salaries just shy of $40,000, on average.Dr. Carnevale’s research has found that 40 percent of middle-skills jobs pay more than $55,000 a year; some 14 percent pay more than $80,000 (by comparison, the median salary for young adults with a bachelor’s degree is $50,000).Jobs like the ones John Deere offers are still associated in people’s minds with students who performed poorly in high school, those considered “not college material.” But to succeed in programs like those at Walla Walla, students need to take advanced math and writing in high school, academics typically encouraged only for those going on to four-year colleges.Persuading students and their parents to consider the apprenticeship track is a tough sell, especially because companies want students who have a strong academic background.Struggling to fill jobs in the Charlotte plant, Siemens in 2011 created an apprenticeship program for seniors at local high schools that combines four years of on-the-job training with an associate degree in mechatronics from nearby Central Piedmont Community College. When they finish, graduates have no student loans and earn more than $50,000 a year.“These are not positions for underachievers,” said Roger Collins, who recruits apprentices for Siemens at 15 Charlotte-area high schools.Chad Robinson was one of those students. Ranked in the top 10 of his high school’s senior class, with a 3.75 grade-point average, he had already been accepted to the engineering school at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte when he told his parents he wanted to shift course and apply for the Siemens apprenticeship.“They were very against it,” he said, until they went to the open house. “A lot of my friends who majored in engineering in college told me they wish they had done the apprenticeship because my work experience will put me ahead of everyone else.”IT is not uncommon to find executives in Europe who got their start in apprenticeships, which are seen as a respected path to a profession in a variety of fields, from hospitality to health care, retail to banking.In the United States, on the other hand, apprenticeships have long been associated with the construction trades and labor unions. That can be traced to a Depression-era labor shortage that led Congress to pass the National Apprenticeship Act. The act formalized standards and empowered the Labor Department to certify training, which was mostly in manual labor occupations. Unions took on the task, tightly controlling apprenticeship opportunities and passing them down through the generations.In the decades after World War II, registered programs expanded in number and type, with the addition of fields like firefighting and medical technician. But apprenticeships never caught on, relegated to a second-class career track as college enrollment ballooned in the 1960s and ’70s, and more recently mirroring the falloff in the influence and membership of labor unions.The Department of Labor’s registry now lists 21,000 programs with about 500,000 apprentices, which sounds impressive but represents only 1.5 percent of 18- to 24-year-olds in this country and is far short of demand. Still, participation is up 35 percent and the number of programs by 11 percent since 2013.Apprenticeships are making a comeback thanks in part to bipartisan support among lawmakers. In the last two years, Washington has allocated $265 million to spur programs. President Obama’s secretary of labor, Thomas E. Perez, a strong proponent, attempted to rebrand apprenticeships to appeal to educators and parents. During his tenure, the department established a partnership between registered community colleges and sponsors that allowed on-the-job-training to count as academic credit toward a degree.“Apprenticeship is the other college, except without the debt,” said Mr. Perez, who had a goal of doubling the number by 2018. Advocates are hopeful that the trend will continue with new leadership in Washington, given President Trump’s familiarity with construction.While the building trades still dominate, the types of occupations offering internships have expanded to include jobs like pharmacy technician, I.T. project manager and insurance adjuster. Aon, the insurance and financial services company, last month announced a program in Chicago in which high school graduates get training in account management, human resources, financial analysis and information technology while earning an associate degree from Harold Washington College or Harper College.Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado wants to make apprenticeships ubiquitous in high schools around his state. Later this year, backed by $9.5 million from Bloomberg Philanthropies and JPMorgan Chase, Colorado will begin offering hands-on training, starting in high school, in financial services, information technology and health care as well as manufacturing. The goal is to make the program available to some 20,000 students at all academic and income levels within the next decade.“Apprenticeships can start with a job and end with a Ph.D.,” said Noel Ginsburg, who heads up the program and is president and founder of Intertech Plastics in Denver. The initiative was inspired by a visit that Mr. Ginsburg and dozens of politicians and business and education leaders made to Switzerland in 2015. Although German apprenticeships are often held up as the model, Mr. Ginsburg preferred the Swiss approach, which involves a wider range of fields.In Switzerland, compulsory education ends after ninth grade, when students can choose either an academic or a vocational path. Between 20 percent and 30 percent of students choose the academic track, which focuses on the few professions, such as medicine and law, that require a university education; nearly 70 percent choose the vocational track, with programs for about 230 occupations.Beginning in 10th grade, students rotate among employers, industry organizations and school for three to four years of training and mentoring. Learning is hands-on, and they are paid. Switzerland’s unemployment rate for the young is the lowest in Europe and about a quarter that of the United States’.Here in the United States, most students are offered a choice between college or a dead end. The college-for-all movement, it seems, has closed off rather than opened up career options. For working-class voters who feel left out in this economy to be able to secure meaningful jobs, educational pathways must be expanded and legitimized — in the process redefining and broadening what is meant by higher education.“The silver bullet comes by adding more training opportunities during and after high school,” said Dr. Carnevale. “And whatever you do with training, you need to call it college. You want to make people feel good about the path they choose.”
CHICAGO — On Friday afternoon, a group of suburban synagogue members clustered at O’Hare International Airport, waiting to greet one of the last Syrian refugee families to be accepted in the United States, to give them the warmest possible welcome to a country that no longer wanted their kind.In Washington, the presidential limousine was already speeding toward the Pentagon, where President Trump would sign a paper officially slamming the door shut on Syrian refugees. But here the volunteers had yellow roses, more warm coats than the newcomers would need and, a few miles away, an apartment ready with a doormat that said “welcome” in 17 languages.“Welcome to chicag Hope you make your selfs at home” said a sign made by one of the youngest members of the group.Whatever the new president said about the supposed dangers of Syrian refugees, the volunteers, who knew almost nothing about the family they were about to welcome, instantly identified with them anyway. They had already committed to helping guide and care for the newcomers for six months.Some of the volunteers were children or grandchildren of refugees. Their synagogue, Am Shalom (“People of Peace”) in Glencoe, Ill., displays a statue depicting members’ families who perished at the Nazis’ hands. The Syrian family, and the president’s orders, were coming on International Holocaust Remembrance Day, some of the volunteers noted with tears in their eyes. A hundred synagogue members had contributed in some way to helping resettle the Syrians: renting an apartment steps from a playground, assembling a vacuum cleaner, lining up juice boxes in the refrigerator.Some of the synagogue members had signed on instinctually, so the Syrians would be helped the way their own parents or grandparents had been aided when they arrived in the United States. Others had joined as a way of countering Mr. Trump — just a few of the many Americans, of varied backgrounds, reacting with shock, outrage and concern to his curtailment of the country’s long-established refugee resettlement system.“The Statue of Liberty has always been our symbol of welcome,” Rabbi Steven Stark Lowenstein, the group’s leader, said at the airport. “It feels like Trump turned off the light,” he said.At the Pentagon on Friday, the preparations for the president’s actions were orderly: High-level officials gathered in a room called the Hall of Heroes, and photographers assembled. But around the country, refugees, resettlement workers and volunteers expressed panic. Resettlement workers did not know if they would have jobs once Mr. Trump’s refugee and immigration plans have been fully carried out. Volunteers wondered what they would do with furniture and money they had collected for refugees who were supposed to arrive soon.RefugeeOne, the resettlement agency responsible for the family coming into O’Hare, had been expecting another Syrian family to arrive on Monday.“That’s not happening,” Kim Snoddy, the program’s liaison to groups like the Am Shalom volunteers, said as she waited with them at the airport on Friday.A volunteer from another Chicago group posted a photograph on Facebook of an empty crib, made up with a pink sheet and a stuffed bunny, for the baby of a family that would no longer arrive.Resettlement workers and volunteers across the country said that since Election Day, Americans of diverse backgrounds had been lining up to aid refugees, channeling their opposition to Mr. Trump into a desire to help vulnerable newcomers. Sloane Davidson, 37, a graduate student in Pittsburgh, hosted refugees for Thanksgiving dinner and said she was so moved by the experience that she took a job as a case aide at a local agency.“The more I learned about what I felt to be the truth and the truth that Trump was telling,” the more she wanted to get involved, she wrote in an email.Resettlement agencies said that volunteers had been swarming their offices and that even more had surfaced last week when Mr. Trump’s specific plans became public. When the International Refugee Assistance Project put out a call for lawyers to help new arrivals in danger of being turned away, it received 3,000 volunteers in four hours, said Becca Heller, the organization’s director.“People are desperate to help refugees as a way to counter these discriminatory policies,” she said.As the minutes passed at O’Hare, the volunteers checked the time again, tense with the knowledge that Mr. Trump was about to commit pen to paper. The family they were awaiting had flown into Washington the night before, meaning they had cleared immigration with less than a day to spare. But the volunteers said they would not be able to exhale until the newcomers landed in Chicago. The flight was delayed, they heard. They glanced at the time on their phones again.As soon as the Syrian family of four stepped into the baggage claim area, the synagogue members surrounded them protectively, offering the flowers and signs, as a resettlement worker translated. Because they spoke no English, the newcomers wore tags around their necks, like Paddington Bear, so if they got lost, they could be identified.In a moment, the two Syrian children’s arms were laden with gift bags of toys. The parents said they were too terrified to talk to a reporter, out of concern for family members — some still trapped in dangerous areas of Syria and others who had been cleared to travel to the United States but had not yet received plane tickets.After hugs and snapshots and many professions of welcome and thanks, the group at the airport dispersed. The refugees headed to their new home with a few escorts, the synagogue members back to their far more stable lives. Just before they parted, Rabbi Lowenstein gathered his congregants and gave them a charge.“If this is the last group of refugees to get in, we will show them the best of America,” he said.The family was driven to its new home, where a meal and a Syrian-style semolina cake were waiting. The couple said they had not checked the news since landing in the United States, and no one from the volunteer group had told them what was about to happen. Moments before they arrived at the cozy, fully stocked apartment, Mr. Trump, wearing an American flag pin, signed the orders in front of an audience of his advisers and Pentagon officials. As he finished, the clapping in the room was loud.Behind him hung an oversize medal depicting the Statue of Liberty, a beacon of welcome.
When Phyllis Lay starts playing her flute, the family cat gives her a dirty look and bolts from the room. Her husband follows close behind.“I’m working on some high notes, and they are sort of screechy,” said Ms. Lay, 70, a former teacher in Tacoma, Wash. But, she said, “Sometimes it’s sort of nice to be by yourself when you’re practicing.”Ms. Lay is part of a growing number of retirees who are returning to the instruments they played during childhood and then put aside, or who are taking up the piano, flute or horn for the first time.The Brattleboro Music Center in Brattleboro, Vt., has had a 10 percent increase in the last five years in students who are retirees, said Carol Compton, the education program director at the music center’s school. “We’ve begun adding daytime programs in response to the interest of this demographic,” she said.For those who relish the idea of self-improvement in retirement and have the time and financial stability to pursue a hobby, there are many options. Tennis? Gardening? Bridge? Book club?But for some who have fond memories of conquering war horses like Beethoven’s “Für Elise” or Schumann’s “The Happy Farmer,” the idea of picking up where they left off — or mastering a new musical skill — is appealing.For Ms. Lay, who had a stroke two years ago that affected her right arm and hand, playing an instrument serves as physical and emotional therapy.“I feel better when I accomplish something,” she said. “To do anything is an improvement over what I was capable of a few months back. When I get tense, I tell myself, ‘Wait until tomorrow, maybe I’ll be able to play the notes then.’”The New Horizons International Music Association, a nonprofit program aimed primarily at adults over 50 who want to play in a group, has 10,000 participants in 232 bands and orchestras around the country. And there are 44 more ensembles in the planning stages, said Roy Ernst, who founded the organization in 1991.“We’ve had steady growth,” said Mr. Ernst, a professor emeritus at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester. “There are people contacting us all the time.”Many who join an ensemble or chorus view their participation as a chance to expand their social circle and feel part of a community that is creating art. “Often, older adults talk in detail about how they’ve always loved music and have gone to concerts,” said Alicia Andrews, the assistant director of the Lucy Moses School at  Kaufman Music Center in New York City. “And now, after retirement, they finally have time to participate themselves.”Judy Fink played flute for three or four months in the fourth grade, followed some years later by a brief flirtation with the guitar. “But I was a perfectionist, and you can’t be a perfectionist when you’re just learning,” said Ms. Fink, 63, a former elementary-school teacher and program director at Stone Barns Center for School and Agriculture in Tarrytown, N.Y. “I always loved music, and my brothers and I went to classical concerts, but I didn’t understand it on an intellectual level. It was a puzzle I couldn’t solve.”In her mid-40s, Ms. Fink took piano lessons for several years, but she lost momentum because her work schedule made evening practice sessions the only option. When she and her husband, Rob Freeberg — who happens to be a retired music teacher — moved to Dummerston, Vt., from Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., four years ago, the time seemed right to try again. She’s now taking private lessons and duet classes at the Brattleboro Music Center.“What’s exciting about taking piano lessons now is that I can practice whenever I want,” said Ms. Fink, who added that her frequent attendance at concerts had been greatly enhanced by her new understanding of music theory.As an audience member, “I give myself little assignments,” she said, “like listening for changes in the key signature within movements and seeing how that affects the mood of a piece.”George Blinick, 89, had always wanted to play an instrument as a child, but the family budget didn’t accommodate music lessons. When he retired from his job as a pharmacist 21 years ago, he was determined to make up for lost time and joined a New Horizons band near his home in suburban Chicago.Mr. Blinick had visions of being the next Harry James. “But when I was handed a trumpet and blew, nothing came out,” he said. “Then one of the instructors said, ‘Try this,’ and handed me an alto saxophone. I blew, and out came a note.”Mr. Blinick has since switched to the baritone sax. He practices diligently for 60 to 90 minutes a day and has a repertoire that stretches from Joseph Haydn to Buddy Holly. “The New York Philharmonic is not going to hire me,” he said, “but making sound with my instrument is a real delight.”It may also be good for the brain, said Denise C. Park, the director of research at the Center for Vital Longevity at the University of Texas at Dallas. “A lot more research needs to be done,” Ms. Park said. “But there’s the sense that tasks that are mentally demanding support and maintain cognition in older adults.”Some retirees say that their fingers don’t move over the keys or across the strings as deftly as they would like — and perhaps it isn’t as easy to memorize a sonata as it once was. But there are ways in which age, far from being a hindrance, is an advantage.“You know more about yourself as a learner than you did at 5, 6 or 7,” said Ms. Andrews of the Lucy Moses School. You know, for example, whether you find it more helpful to have things written down rather than hearing them (or vice versa), and whether you’re a big-picture person or more detailed-oriented. And you know what you need in the way of feedback.Consequently, “many of our adults know what to share with their teacher to create the best lesson environment,” Ms. Andrews said.Older adults may also be more forgiving of themselves than they once were — and more tolerant of a wrong note (or six). Ms. Fink said that now, unlike in her earlier tour of duty at the piano, she has realistic expectations and appropriate goals. “I’m a lot more patient with myself now,” she said. “If I get frustrated, I don’t push myself. I know when to stop.”Laura Leinberger played the piano as a child, but she decided after a career in operations management that she wanted a more collaborative musical experience in retirement. Accordingly, she began taking vocal classes and subsequently joined the Oratorio Society of New Jersey — she’s an alto — and has been learning the intricacies of singing duets and four-part harmonies.“I was used to being a top student, but I’m at a point where I am willing to take the risk of being the worst in the class,” Ms. Leinberger, 72, said. “It doesn’t matter to me. The other chorus members are half my age or more, but they’re very accepting. And every semester my range and volume are better.”For many older adults, it may be as much about making friends as making music. “Retirees have a tendency to become isolated and to be tied to the past,” Mr. Ernst said. “Music connects them to other people.”When Lois Owen, 81, moved to Durham, N.C., from Chicago in 2013, after the death of her husband, “I was kind of depressed,” she said. A former meeting planner and real estate agent, she found herself in an unfamiliar city in a retirement home where she knew no one. But there was a Steinway in the living room, and one day Ms. Owen, who had begun playing by ear in kindergarten and studied voice and piano in college, sat down and started to play.“I think it saved me,” Ms. Owen said. “It’s really filled a void in my life. I play songs from the ’50s, and they really bring back memories.”Apparently, they do the same for her retirement home neighbors. “Now people come over and want to get to know me,” Ms. Owen said. “I’ve increased the number of friends I have here, and I feel so good about that.”Still, she makes no great claim for her later-in-life accomplishments. “I’m not going to tear down the world,” said Ms. Owen, who also performs with great success for a number of Alzheimer’s patients. “But I see people blooming when I play for them.”
OAKLAND, Calif. — Golden State Coach Steve Kerr said Friday that he would find an opportunity to get four Warriors on the court together when he coaches the Western Conference in next month’s N.B.A. All-Star Game.“I am absolutely going to play them all four together,” Kerr said. “Those four will be together for sure. I can guarantee you that’ll happen at some point, because that will be a pretty cool thing. It’s very rare.”He added: “It’ll be fun. At least for a couple minutes, I’ll get them all out there at once.”The Warriors tied an N.B.A. record by sending four players to the All-Star Game, which will be played Feb. 19 in New Orleans. Stephen Curry, the two-time reigning most valuable player, and Kevin Durant will start for the Western Conference, and Draymond Green and Klay Thompson are reserves.“That’ll be really cool,” Thompson said of playing with his three teammates in the N.B.A.’s midseason showcase. “I wonder who the fifth player will be. That will be really awesome. It will feel like a real game, and we can even run some sets. It’s crazy. It’s really a unique situation, and it doesn’t happen a lot for a lot of teams, so we’re going to enjoy the heck out of it.”Golden State, which has the N.B.A.’s best record at 39-7, is just the eighth franchise to send four players to the All-Star Game. The Los Angeles Lakers are the only other Western Conference team to have done so, in 1998.“That’s special,” Green said. “It says a lot about this team. First off, the success that we’ve had here.”To honor the lone Golden State starter who will not play in the All-Star Game — center Zaza Pachulia — Thompson had a plan in mind.“I might set a hard screen or something,” he said.Green had his own idea: “We’ll all take Fatheads for Zaza, extra-large size,” referring to life-size wall decals.Green found out about making the team while taking care of his 1-month-old son, Draymond Jr., on Thursday. He was on feeding and diaper duty, and the baby was “crying a lot.”“My first 35 minutes was hell finding out I was an All-Star,” he said. But then, Green said: “He ate, I started burping him and he fell asleep, so I started responding to texts and he woke up like 10 minutes later and went crazy again. It was a cool couple hours for me, dealing with crying and diapers, milk. It was fun.”When Kerr and the Golden State staff coach their second All-Star Game in three seasons, they will see many familiar faces.“It’s a great honor for those guys individually and for us as an organization,” Kerr said. “It’s pretty remarkable to have this group together right now and to see them all playing so well together, along with the rest of our guys.“It doesn’t always work that way, where you put a group together, a group of stars, it doesn’t always click. But it’s clicked because our guys are unselfish and they enjoy playing with one another.”
In several of John Hurt’s best-known roles, he played the leaders of authoritarian regimes or subjects struggling underneath their tyrannical reigns.In the BBC television adaptation of “I, Claudius” in 1976, he played the mad Roman emperor Caligula, who commanded his armies to plunder seashells from the god Neptune and appointed his horse to the Senate. (As this Caligula ruefully said to his subjects, “If you only had one neck, I’d hack it through.”)Mr. Hurt played a quietly noble Winston Smith, the hero of “1984,” resisting the incursions of Big Brother and the Thought Police in Michael Radford’s film adaptation of that George Orwell novel.He was nominated for an Academy Award for best actor for his performance in “The Elephant Man,” even though he was mostly unrecognizable beneath layers of prosthetics.In the movie “Alien” (1979), Mr. Hurt memorably had the invading alien burst from his stomach.In a later bit of casting that nodded to his “1984” performance, Mr. Hurt portrayed the venomous High Chancellor Sutler, the leader of a fictional fascist political party called Norsefire, in “V For Vendetta,” a 2005 movie based on a graphic novel in which England has become a totalitarian state.
Throughout his nine-year N.H.L. career, Wayne Simmonds has established a reputation for payback.He has delivered plenty of big hits, fierce punches and timely goals. He has yielded big dividends for the two teams that have invested in him — the Los Angeles Kings and the Philadelphia Flyers. Most important to him, though, he has given back to his hometown, Scarborough, Ontario, and to programs across North America like the ones that made his career possible.Simmonds, who is black, has developed into one of the most versatile players in the league. He has also established himself as a prominent figure in youth hockey and the expansion of the sport’s diversity.For all that, he has earned praise from Willie O’Ree, who became the first black player in the N.H.L. when he debuted in 1958.“I have the highest admiration and respect for him,” O’Ree said of Simmonds. “He’s not only a beautiful human being, but he’s a quintessential, solid, up-and-down hockey player. I love watching him play.”This weekend Simmonds, known as the Wayne Train, will pull into Los Angeles, the city where he began his N.H.L. career, as a first-time All-Star. He is one of a record four black players selected for Sunday’s All-Star Game, joining P. K. Subban of the Nashville Predators, Kyle Okposo of the Buffalo Sabres and Seth Jones of the Columbus Blue Jackets.Simmonds, 28, may be the most unlikely All-Star of the group.When he was traded to Philadelphia from Los Angeles in 2011, Simmonds was a checking forward who had averaged 13 goals over three seasons with the Kings. He had only three power-play goals, going an entire season without one.But with the Flyers, Simmonds has evolved into an asset in all situations, particularly the power play, where he has become one of the most formidable net-front presences in the league.He has been remarkably consistent, averaging 29 goals in his first four full seasons as a Flyer. Simmonds already has 21 goals this season to lead the Flyers through 50 games. His 69 power-play goals since arriving in Philadelphia are second only to Washington Capitals wing Alex Ovechkin over that span. He is also on a pace to accumulate more than 100 penalty minutes for the fifth time.“He’s a hard guy to play against,” Anaheim Ducks Coach Randy Carlyle said. “He stands up for his teammates. He’s grown into one of the top, premier power forwards in the game.”Simmonds displays a surly side. Flyers defenseman Michael Del Zotto said Simmonds would “fight anyone.” Last season Subban, then with the Montreal Canadiens, was captured on video telling his teammate Max Pacioretty, “No, you cannot fight Wayne Simmonds.”Simmonds’s consistency and relentlessness trace back to diverse, working-class Scarborough, a district of Toronto with a large immigrant population. Sacrifices and pledge drives were necessary to keep his hockey career marching forward. Ever appreciative of the help he received from his community and the values instilled by his parents, Cyril and Wanda, Simmonds has become an ambassador for hockey working with youth players in Scarborough, Harlem, Washington, Philadelphia and beyond.“Both my parents would give the shirts off their back to help anyone in need, anyone they knew who was close to them,” said Simmonds, one of six children. “They were hard-working people who would do anything to help, and that’s the way I live my life.”He grows tender and reverent when speaking of hockey’s pioneers like O’Ree, whom Simmonds worked with as part of the Hockey Is for Everyone initiative. Simmonds also formed an immediate and enduring bond with Ed Snider, the Flyers’ founder and owner, who died last year.Scott Tharp, the president of the Ed Snider Youth Hockey Foundation, said Snider had a “magnetic attraction” to Simmonds as a self-starter, a tireless worker and someone with a profound understanding of what it meant to set goals to be accomplished as a team. Simmonds took an active role in the foundation and now sits on its board of directors.“Wayne just had such a rapport with the students in our program, and that didn’t go unnoticed to Ed,” Tharp said. “He was very touched. He was also very aware of the type of impact that a player of color and a player that had the overall understanding of what these kids were going through in life could make on our program.”Simmonds extols programs like Ice Hockey in Harlem and his own foundation in Scarborough as means of teaching children values for life through hockey.“Just allowing kids to see somebody familiar to them such as myself to succeed, that gives them an opportunity, and it opens up their eyes to other experiences that they can take advantage of,” Simmonds said.As a youth he attended a camp run by his fellow Scarborough native Kevin Weekes, a former N.H.L. goalie. Weekes, who is also black, said Simmonds was “just as you see him now, that’s what he was then: hungry, tenacious, intense and hard-working.”Simmonds was not a heralded draft prospect in 2007, not ranked among the top 200 North American skaters by the N.H.L.’s central scouting service. Weekes, now an analyst for N.H.L. Network, recalled that some observers were perplexed when the Kings took Simmonds in the second round.Simmonds was also not the main piece in the trade that sent him to Philadelphia and forward Mike Richards to Los Angeles. Brayden Schenn, who was part of the package with Simmonds, was ranked by Hockey’s Future as the top prospect at the time.But Simmonds has scored more goals than any other Flyer since his arrival in 2011.“His first instincts are always to take care of teammates,” Flyers Coach Dave Hakstol said. “I think he’s done a good job in terms of growing in that role in his maturity and his confidence. He does things on his terms, and I think that’s important.”Simmonds typifies the Flyers’ hard-working identity and extends it off the ice.“For us, it wasn’t just about us getting there, being there and being the best players we can be,” Weekes said. “We were trying to spread the game and spread the good word of this great sport to as many different parents and young players as possible.”
For more than 400 employees recently laid off by Wells Fargo, the aftermath of the bank’s scandal over sham accounts has had an unexpected consequence: The bank is prohibited from paying the severance it owes them.In mid-November, Wells Fargo’s federal regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, imposed additional restrictions on the troubled bank. The rules, part of which are intended to curb golden parachute packages, limit what payments Wells Fargo is permitted to make to terminated employees without explicit regulatory approval.Routine severance pay is sometimes exempted from such restrictions, but the federal rules for golden parachute pay are complex, and Wells Fargo’s severance plan is not eligible for the exemption, according to Diana Rodriguez, a bank spokeswoman.Former employees at all levels of the company, from rank-and-file branch workers to corporate executives, are affected by the hold. Wells Fargo’s severance packages typically run from six weeks of pay to as long as 16 months, depending on the employee’s length of service.The people affected are those whose jobs have been cut as part of Wells Fargo’s regular business adjustments. They are not accused of wrongdoing. Workers who are fired for cause, such as those involved in the scandal, are not eligible for severance. In recent years, the bank has terminated 5,300 employees in connection with its misconduct.The bank has asked the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency for approval to make severance payments but has not yet received it, Ms. Rodriguez said. The payments add up to several million dollars.Wells Fargo has temporarily stopped all layoffs until it can resolve the issue. The freeze began on Nov. 21, three days after the bank was notified of the additional restrictions.But about 400 workers who were terminated right before the additional restrictions were imposed are caught in limbo. Wells Fargo has told them that their severance payments are indefinitely delayed.“We are deeply sorry for the hardship this creates for affected team members, and we are doing everything in our power to resolve the situation as quickly as possible,” Ms. Rodriguez said.Bryan Hubbard, a spokesman for the O.C.C., declined to elaborate beyond the highly technical two-sentence statement the agency released in November describing the additional restrictions being placed on Wells Fargo.Wells Fargo has been in turmoil since September, when it admitted that thousands of its employees, under pressure to meet aggressive sales goals, had created as many as two million fraudulent accounts in the names of real customers. Some customers did not learn of the sham accounts until they began incurring fees on them.The O.C.C. — which participated in a $185 million settlement deal with Wells Fargo that resolved several government lawsuits — initially let the bank off fairly lightly, exempting it from some of the restrictions normally imposed on banks that break the law. Two months later, it reversed course and tightened its grip.What kind of oversight banks will face in the future is an open question.President Trump said this week that he intended to “dramatically reduce federal regulations” and do “a big number” on the Dodd-Frank Act, the Obama-era law that increased Wall Street restrictions. Republicans have already begun floating proposals to strip funding and powers from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the regulatory agency that, with the O.C.C., investigated Wells Fargo and drew national attention to its illegal acts.Investigators, including some hired by Wells Fargo, are still figuring out the full extent of the bank’s misdeeds.In a meeting this month with Wells Fargo employees, Timothy J. Sloan — who took over in October, after the bank’s longtime leader, John G. Stumpf, was felled by the scandal — acknowledged what a number of employees had previously said: that the bank may have retaliated against some workers who had tried to blow the whistle internally on its actions.Wells Fargo hired an outside investigator to review all calls made in the last five years to the bank’s ethics hotline in which the employee gave a name. About 40 percent of those who called identified themselves, the bank said.In reviewing the records of employees who were fired within 12 months of making a call, the bank’s investigator found a few cases that “raised questions,” Mr. Sloan said. “Even though it’s a very small number, anything more than zero is too large.”The bank is still researching those cases. Wells Fargo will “work with each individual” on potential remedies, Richele J. Messick, a Wells Fargo spokeswoman, said.“We are continuing to investigate, and whatever we find, we will make right,” Ms. Messick said.Separately, Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, asked the Department of Labor to provide an update this week on the status of its investigation of Wells Fargo.In September, Thomas E. Perez, the labor secretary at the time, promised a “top-to-bottom review” of complaints filed against Wells Fargo. But a Labor Department web page on which Wells Fargo employees could report violations has abruptly disappeared, Ms. Warren noted in a letter sent on Friday.“Taking down this website enables Wells Fargo to escape full responsibility for its fraudulent actions and the department to shirk its outstanding obligations to American workers,” Ms. Warren wrote.That page was taken down in early January, nearly two weeks before Mr. Trump’s inauguration, according to Stephen Barr, a Labor Department spokesman. He declined to comment on why the page had been removed.“The investigation is ongoing,” Mr. Barr said. “We’re going to respond to the senator, but there’s no change here in the status of the review.”
After years of court action and contentious debate over the Amona settlement outpost in the occupied West Bank, Israeli security forces operating under a court order forcibly evacuated settlers there on Wednesday.Adding to the chaos, hundreds of young activists barricaded themselves in makeshift buildings at the site.Hundreds of unarmed police officers in blue sweatshirts and baseball caps were sent to remove about 40 families from the outpost, which Israel’s Supreme Court has declared illegal.Amona is the largest of about 100 outposts built without authorization across the West Bank. Over the years, it has become a flagship and a flash point of the Israeli settler movement. In 2014, the Supreme Court ruled that the outpost had been built on privately owned Palestinian land and ordered officials to raze it.The government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu delayed the evacuation as long as it legally could, worried that removing the settlers would jeopardize his standing with right-wing Israeli voters who support settlement building on lands they view as historically Jewish.The police confronted protesters, many of them high school students, exactly 11 years to the day after Israeli forces demolished part of an earlier version of the settlement. In 2006, Israeli forces destroyed nine homes in Amona and clashed violently with settlers and their supporters.About 2 p.m. on Wednesday, the police began evacuating settlers from the rugged hilltop overlooking a string of Palestinian villages. The young activists had built barricades from broken tiles, large rocks and metal bars.“You are supposed to protect us, not break into our homes!” one man shouted as the police tried to enter one home.“This is a dark day for us, for Zionism, for the state and for the great vision of the Jewish people returning to its homeland,” Avichay Buaron, a spokesman for Amona, told Channel 2 TV.Ayelet Videl waited on the porch for the police to arrive at her trailer home. “Our heart is broken,” she said. “I didn’t imagine that all these energies would be channeled into destruction rather than construction.”Despite the evacuation, settler leaders said the day’s events represented only a minor setback in a larger battle over settlements — and one that they perceive they are winning. Hours before the police entered Amona, Mr. Netanyahu’s government approved construction of 3,000 more settler housing units in the West Bank. That roughly doubled the number of units approved, along with two earlier construction plans that recently set off international condemnation.“Altogether, we are moving on a very good vector. We are close to half a million people in Judea and Samaria,” said Shilo Adler, the head of the Yesha Council advocacy group, using biblical names for the West Bank.The Palestinians claim the West Bank, which Israel captured from Jordan in the 1967 war, as part of a future independent state. In the Palestinian villages near Amona, landowners who helped bring the lawsuit against the settlers praised the outpost’s destruction.


The headquarters of the Fédération Française de la Couture, the body which safeguards the made-to-measure breed of French fashion known as haute couture, is located on the rue Faubourg St.-Honoré, just across the street from the building that used to house the couture workrooms and salons of Christian Lacroix. Ironic, given that Lacroix was a couture darling, until the recession forced him to close shop in 2009 after 22 years.Despite his acclaimed artistry, couture alone couldn’t keep Lacroix afloat. It’s something the Fédération realizes all too well. Perhaps surprisingly to us, couture makes virtually no profit — and often posts a loss. That is because haute couture, by its very nature, is an archaic throwback. It is only produced in Paris, by a handful of designers (14 officially) and presented twice a year, in January and July. Haute couture pieces are constructed almost entirely by hand, and prices regularly range in the hundreds of thousands of dollars for a single piece. Houses shore their businesses up with mass-manufactured lines, or lucrative licensed perfumes and cosmetics. Haute couture’s relation to the larger fashion conversation is hazy at best: It does not determine influential new lines or silhouettes, the way ready-to-wear does. It also doesn’t dress many women. After all, those inherent yet prohibitive prices restrict the couture client base to around 1,000 people worldwide. Or as Bruno Pavlovsky, the president of fashion at Chanel, calls them: “the happy few.”But now, to survive into the 21st century, the age-old and old-age world of haute couture is finally beginning to change with the times. “Contrary to what people think, the concept of couture is very modern,” Pavlovsky reasons. “It is about being able to design, for every single customer, the unique and the best clothes.”Haute couture is a legally protected term — and fashion houses are only granted the designation by the French Ministry of Industry. Schiaparelli, for instance, labeled itself as “demi-couture” until this season; it was only permitted to use the haute couture appellation earlier this month. To get the label, you have to play by the rules — and there are many, which determine if a house can be haute or not. A label needs to maintain a Parisian workroom with a minimum of 20 employees, and it must produce at least 25 outfits per season. Those rules have been rewritten a number of times: Haute couture was first formalized after World War II in 1945, when rules were first implemented to prevent misuse of the name. Originally, the number of required outfits per collection was 50; in 1992, it was cut in half. Then, in 2001, the goal posts shifted again, to introduce a qualitative assessment from the Fédération, in case any of the requirements were not satisfied. “You have to compare it to the Maastricht Treaty,” says Pascal Morand, the executive president of the Fédération, with a smile. “Do you treat that in a very strict way, or do you give some flexibility? And to what point?”There are a few different designers pushing the limits in couture today. The Dutch designer Iris Van Herpen, who began showing on the haute couture calendar in January 2011, creates extraordinary dresses devised from 3D printing which resemble the creations of H.R. Giger for the “Aliens” films. Her latest collection consisted of only 16 looks — breaking a rule of couture. Furthermore, her use of technology seems antithetical to haute couture’s cherishing of the handmade. Yet Van Herpen’s clothes are true one-offs, in the couture tradition, so the Fédération made an exception for her. Come 2015, even Chanel — couture’s longest surviving house — joined in, producing 3D printed versions of its classic suits.The latest shifts from the industry comes from the bellwether fashion label Vetements, which has shown as part of haute couture for the last two seasons — and the official invitation of the Fédération, who bent their own rules to allow Vetements onto the schedule. Certainly, the brand’s inclusion on the schedule pushes the limits of what haute couture can — or should — mean. Its streetwear-focused designs certainly don’t look like haute couture — which, generally, favors ball gowns over day wear. That makes sense when it comes to satisfying the clientele: If you’re going to spend upward of $100,000 on a dress, it’ll probably be for your wedding (Melania Trump did, in 2005, when she married Donald Trump in Christian Dior couture). Besides, Vetements clothes are mass-manufactured.But Morand speaks of rules that are less concrete, and more ideological. “Couture supposes a high level of creativity and a high level of savoir faire delivered in the atelier. And also the absolute level of individualization,” he says. Suddenly, it’s clear how Vetements fit the flexible couture criteria in the 21st century. Last season, the brand focused on working with individual garment manufacturers — Champion for sweatshirts, Levi’s for denim or Hanes for T-shirts — comparing them to the specialist ateliers whose expertise has supplied couture houses with embroideries, pleating and handmade buttons for centuries. “For them, it was a new way of seeing what couture could mean today,” Demna Gvasalia, Vetements’ creative director, says of the Fédération. “Craftsmanship. Whether it’s a T-shirt or an evening dress.”The brand’s latest show, which was presented Tuesday afternoon a few hours after that of couture stalwart Chanel, focused on individuality. Models came out dressed as different archetypes: There was the “Milanese” in a fur coat, the “Secretary” in a tailored suit, or the “Stoner” in a sweatshirt and nylon windbreaker. There was even a bride to close the show, in the grand couture tradition. “For me, there is some couture in it,” Gvasalia says. “I am really impressed in how the Fédération are open to reassessing these things: What is couture today?”“It’s the idea of uniqueness,” Morand says, when asked about the fundamental meaning of haute couture. “I think it’s important to capture that sense, and the way it is linked to the past — tradition — the present, and what it means for the future.” Evidently, that can mean a windbreaker, or a 3D printed dress or a hand-stitched Chanel suit. Couture, it seems, takes all forms — regardless of the rules.
WASHINGTON — President Trump campaigned on sweeping promises to eliminate former President Barack Obama’s major environmental regulations and “get rid of” the Environmental Protection Agency. On Tuesday, Mr. Trump offered a down payment on those promises, with memorandums clearing the path to construction of the  Keystone XL and Dakota Access oil pipelines. He is expected to roll back a few more rules, including some on coal production, in the next few weeks.Although dismantling Mr. Obama’s most far-reaching climate regulations can be done, it will take legal acumen and a lot of time – perhaps longer than a single presidential term. Here’s a look at what Mr. Trump can and can’t do, and how quickly, to roll back environmental regulations.A year ago, Mr. Obama incited the coal industry’s rage with a stroke-of-the-pen executive action banning new leasing of coal mines on public lands. Mr. Trump has the same authority to undo the ban.“That was Obama hitting the pause button, and Trump can unpause it,” said Richard J. Lazarus, a professor of environmental law at Harvard University. “Anything that was done without a lot of process up front can be undone without much process.”However, it’s not clear how much impact this move would have on jobs or the environment. It affects only mines in Wyoming and Montana, where coal companies had for years shed jobs because of increased automation and declining coal demand.“This one is low-hanging fruit,” said Mr. Lazarus of a new coal mining regulation. On Jan. 19, the day before Mr. Trump took office, the Obama administration completed a rule to reduce mountaintop-removal coal mining, which uses explosives to blast off the tops of coal-seamed mountains. Coal companies oppose the rule, which prohibits them from using the technique near streams that could be polluted by the resulting rubble.The rule will probably be undone quickly. Under the 1996 Congressional Review Act, Congress can scrap new regulations within 60 legislative days of being completed, by a simple 51-vote majority in the Senate. While the law has been used successfully only once in its 20-year history, it is expected to enjoy a newfound prominence soon. The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell of coal-rich Kentucky, has already vowed to use the act to undo what he calls “this regulatory assault on coal country.” With the support of all 52 Republicans and probably Senator Joe Manchin III, a West Virginia Democrat, as well, the rollback of this rule is expected to be on Mr. Trump’s desk within weeks.In November, the Interior Department completed a rule reining in the venting of methane, a potent planet-warming greenhouse gas, from oil and gas drilling facilities. Oil and gas companies called the rule expensive and burdensome. Like the mountaintop-mining rule, this one falls into the 60-day window allowing Congress to quickly overturn it with a 51-vote majority It is expected that the fossil fuel industry’s allies in the Senate will quickly push to do so.While it can’t be done quickly, there is a clear legal path for the Trump administration to undo one of the hallmarks of Mr. Obama’s climate change policies: a 2011 regulation requiring automakers to build fleets of cars by 2025 that achieve an average fuel economy of 54.5 miles per gallon. The rule, jointly issued by the E.P.A. and the Transportation Department, would force manufacturers to build next-generation electric cars. It could reduce carbon emissions by about six billion tons, equivalent to removing a little more than the United States’ emissions of carbon pollution for an entire year.But the rule came with a loophole: a provision inserted by automakers to revisit it in 2017 if they found it too onerous. Just before Mr. Obama left office, the E.P.A. released a finding that the rule was not too costly for automakers to meet. But it did not do so jointly with the Transportation Department, leaving a legal avenue for the Trump administration to loosen the standards through that agency.The chief executives of the biggest auto companies have already asked Mr. Trump to do just that, in a meeting with him this week. While Mr. Trump did not offer specifics, he did tell the automakers that he plans to ease their regulatory burden.“It’s not something that can be done with the stroke of a pen,” said Jeffrey Holmstead, a former senior E.P.A. official in President George W. Bush’s administration who has been mentioned as a possible deputy E.P.A. administrator in Mr. Trump’s presidency. “It would likely take a year or 18 months. But it’s not a heavy lift, from a legal perspective.”The centerpiece of Mr. Obama’s climate change policy is a 2015 E.P.A. rule curbing greenhouse gas emissions from electric utilities. It could shutter and replace hundreds of coal plants with wind and solar plants. Mr. Trump has vowed to eliminate the rule, but doing so could require years of court battles. He would also be required by law to come up with an alternate regulation.Mr. Obama’s climate rule has already been challenged in a federal court, where it is awaiting a verdict. It is expected to be appealed to the Supreme Court.The Trump administration could refuse to defend the Obama rule in court, but environmental groups could continue to argue in its favor. Meanwhile, the Trump E.P.A. would have to create its own presumably more industry-friendly regulation, which could take about 18 months. But that rule would then assuredly be subject to a federal lawsuit, which itself would probably be appealed to the Supreme Court. In one possible but bizarre outcome, both the Obama climate rule and the Trump climate rule could spend years wending their way through the same courts.“There are a number of ways this could play out as it goes through the courts, and it could take at least four to five years,” said Richard Revesz, director of the American Law Institute at New York University. “Ultimately, what happens to it will likely be determined by the results of the 2020 presidential election.”This obscure but powerful metric was created by Mr. Obama’s economists to put a measurable price, $36 per ton, on damage inflicted by carbon pollution. Mr. Obama’s E.P.A. plugged the social cost of carbon into formulas to create an economic justification for regulations that impose a measurable cost on polluters. By reducing or eliminating this metric, Mr. Trump’s regulators could create an economic rationale to undo those rules and replace them with relaxed, industry-friendly ones.Mr. Obama received angry resistance from rural America over his controversial “Waters of the United States” regulation. It was released in 2015 under the authority of the 1972 Clean Water Act, which gave the federal government broad latitude to limit pollution in major water bodies, like the Chesapeake Bay, the Mississippi River and Puget Sound, as well as small streams and wetlands that drain into those larger waters. But groups like the American Farm Bureau Federation called the rule a land grab, and Mr. Trump has vowed to get rid of it.Mr. Trump’s E.P.A. could revoke the rule. But it would be required to create a new one, venturing into complex legal territory as it tries to redefine the terms of federal waterways and wetlands. “That’s not going to be easy,” Mr. Holmstead said. “I believe they can do it, but it’s likely to take several years.”
WASHINGTON — President Trump announced on Monday that he would add the director of the Central Intelligence Agency to the National Security Council after critics questioned a memorandum released last weekend that also gave a seat to his chief political strategist.Mr. Trump’s decision to include the strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, on the council’s “principals committee” — where he will sit alongside the secretaries of state, Treasury, defense and energy, and other policy makers — has set off an eruption among the Washington national security establishment. The memo did not stipulate that the director of national intelligence or the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff would automatically attend those meetings, and raised concerns about the influence Mr. Bannon would exert over national security.The White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, insisted on Monday that the director of national intelligence and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Gen. Joseph Dunford, were welcome to attend any meetings of the committee on subjects relevant to their portfolios. And he noted that Mr. Trump was adding the C.I.A. director, Mike Pompeo, to the list.“The president has such respect for director Pompeo and the men and women of the C.I.A. that today, the president is announcing he will amend the memo to add C.I.A. back into the N.S.C.,” Mr. Spicer said.The council is no place for political creatures, many have argued. It is the place where the nation’s deepest intelligence secrets, its fluctuating hierarchy of national interests and its jockeying-for-power cabinet members combine as policy differences are hashed out. It is the forum where decisions about war, from Vietnam to Iraq; drone strikes in Pakistan; and conflicts in cyberspace have unfolded over endless hours of meetings.Of course, with stakes that large, it has always been about politics — from grand strategy to petty scorekeeping. Here is a quick look.The nation lived without the council for more than 150 years, until World War II ended and the immense responsibilities of managing the world — and the atomic bomb — descended on President Harry S. Truman. The council was created in 1947, when the C.I.A. and the Defense Department came into being. Like most things in Washington, it started small and, over time, ballooned to such size that every new president swears the first thing he will do is pare it back.Which, of course, never really happens.Presidents of both parties have one thing in common: They are control freaks. And the council becomes the instrument of control. “Each individual president has tremendous latitude to shape both the institution of the N.S.C. and the formal and informal mechanisms of his or her White House national security apparatus,” David Rothkopf wrote in his history of the council, “Running the World.”The council is “all about the influence of one person,” Mr. Rothkopf wrote.The formal instrument is the “principals committee,” made up of the president, the vice president and all those jockeying cabinet members. That is what Mr. Bannon joins, meaning he won the first week’s access-trust-influence sweepstakes. The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the director of national intelligence, who were regular members of the council under President Barack Obama, would attend if “issues pertaining to their responsibilities and expertise are to be discussed.”(The White House points to similar language in President George W. Bush’s orders for his council, though there was no director of national intelligence at the time.)That depends who you are. Back in Mr. Obama’s first term, the national security adviser, Thomas E. Donilon, carved out a few countries he dealt with himself, chiefly China, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan. But the council is not supposed to set policy — it is not supposed to be “operational.” Of course, it frequently is. Get on the plane of the secretary of state or the secretary of defense, and you will almost always run into a council representative, who can keep an eye on things and call back to the White House. During the Iran nuclear negotiations, the council representative was a key player. It has gotten to the point where the council has its tentacles into everything.In Washington, this is the kind of argument people have in bars. (Well, some people.) But on this issue, there is fairly widespread bipartisan consensus: Brent Scowcroft, who served as President George H. W. Bush’s national security adviser, “is widely viewed as one of the most effective people who has ever held that job,” the Aspen Strategy Group, which studied the future of the national security structure last summer, concluded in a recent report.Henry Kissinger might disagree: As President Richard M. Nixon’s national security adviser, he ran circles around the secretary of state, negotiated to end the Vietnam War and conducted the secret diplomacy with China that created Nixon’s opening. When he became secretary of state, he held onto the national security adviser job.The council has a staff that numbers several hundred professionals — most borrowed from the State Department, the Pentagon, the intelligence agencies and other government agencies for two years or so.As with everything in the White House, real estate guides the path to power. So the national security adviser has a big spacious corner office visible from the driveway of the West Wing, and several senior officials are stuffed into windowless offices in the basement, some right under the floor of the Oval Office.Much of the day-to-day decision-making is done by the “deputies committee,” where subcabinet officers, and their designees, sit in seemingly endless meetings in the Situation Room to debate out differences, create policy and push the hardest issues to the president and his top advisers. Intelligence officials often open those meetings, providing assessments of what is happening around the world. (They are not supposed to delve into policy suggestions, but it has happened.)This makes the deputy national security adviser, who convenes those meetings, the most powerful person in Washington that most people have never heard of. It also makes them one of the palest, since they rarely see the sun.He isn’t. During the Obama administration, David Axelrod, Mr. Obama’s chief political adviser, often sat in on council meetings. But he was never a formal member. Susan E. Rice, who was national security adviser until 11 days ago, called the decision to downgrade the chairman of the Joint Chiefs and the director of national intelligence “stone cold crazy.”
Volkswagen has agreed to pay more than $20 billion to settle civil and criminal suits in the United States over its diesel emissions scandal, affecting almost 600,000 cars. This is what that could mean for vehicle owners:Owners of more than 580,000 Volkswagen, Audi and Porsche diesel cars from the 2009-16 model years.Two-liter engines:2009-15 Volkswagen Jetta TDI2009-14 Volkswagen Jetta SportWagen TDI2012-15 Volkswagen Beetle TDI2012-15 Volkswagen Beetle Convertible TDI2010-15 Audi A3 TDI2010-15 Volkswagen Golf TDI2015 Volkswagen Golf SportWagen TDI2012-15 Volkswagen Passat TDIThree-liter engines:2009-16 Volkswagen Touareg2009-15 Audi Q72014-16 Audi A62014-16 Audi A72014-16 Audi A82014-16 Audi Q52013-16 Porsche Cayenne DieselOwners of two-liter vehicles and 2009-12 three-liter models can either sell them back to Volkswagen for a price reflecting their value before September 2015, when the diesel cheating became known, or have their cars repaired free. Customers can search for their vehicle identification numbers here. Volkswagen is still trying to fix newer three-liter vehicles to avoid having to buy them back.The fix, though, may reduce the engines’ performance and gas mileage.Volkswagen will separately offer affected owners of two-liter cars cash compensation of $5,100 to $10,000, depending on the model and year of the vehicle. They will also receive an additional $350 from Bosch, which supplied the engine software. Owners of three-liter cars will be entitled to compensation of $7,000 to $16,000, and $1,500 from Bosch.People who sold their cars after Sept. 18, 2015, when the cheating was publicly disclosed, will be offered half of the cash compensation offered to current owners.You can cancel your lease without penalty and receive half the compensation that an owner would.No, car owners may choose not to participate and instead sue Volkswagen for better terms. Those owners, however, would also risk getting a lesser settlement, or none at all, if their lawsuits are unsuccessful.Volkswagen is recalling or buying back the two-liter cars. All repairs and payments are to be made no later than December 2018.The settlement for three-liter cars, and Bosch’s share of the compensation, still is subject to review by a federal judge and a public comment period, which will take at least until May.
If you’ve been paying attention to Twitter for the past few days, you may have noticed a trending hashtag: #DeleteUber.That’s because there has been a backlash against Uber in response to accusations that the ride-hailing service intended to profit from a protest on Saturday against President Trump’s executive order banning refugees and immigrants from certain countries from entering United States.Uber maintains that its intentions were misunderstood. That hasn’t stopped the online movement — spurred almost entirely through Twitter — of people deciding to delete their Uber accounts.On Tuesday, many users accused Uber of not actually deleting their accounts, despite having been asked to do so. Since much of the conversation has played out on Twitter and confusion about the matter continues, we thought we would lay out the issues here.On Saturday, after the president issued his executive order, a union representing taxi drivers in New York City issued a statement refusing to pick up passengers at Kennedy Airport — the center of the protest — from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m.At 7:30 p.m., Uber posted a message on Twitter saying it had turned off its “surge pricing” feature, a function that increases the cost of a ride during times of high demand.Some interpreted the alert as an opportunistic attempt to attract business, even though it was sent a half-hour after the protest. One Twitter user, @Bro_Pair, saw the message and called widespread attention to it, resulting in the hashtag #DeleteUber. The hashtag was trending on Twitter widely in the United States for much of Saturday night and Sunday.Uber said its message was not an attempt to capitalize on the taxi drivers’ strike, but a notification to users that the company would not be increasing prices at a time of high demand.Yes, you can and have always been able to do so. Directions are on the user support page of the Uber site.Essentially, the issue is that Uber has never had an automated process that allowed users to delete accounts. This was something that has been in Uber’s plans for years, but was expedited over the weekend because of the high volume of requests, according to two people at the company.Before that, if users wanted to delete their accounts, someone at Uber had to do it manually. That’s clearly not a reasonable way to handle a large number of requests.With the volume of deletion requests particularly high, Uber had to create an automated process quickly, which it did and put in place late Sunday.Uber included a security check to the process: Anyone who asked to delete an account received an email with a unique link. The added step was meant to protect against the fraudulent deletion of accounts, for example. Now, users who want to delete their accounts must sign on using their passwords at the Uber site, then click on the unique link after receiving the email from Uber.Users trying to delete their accounts may encounter an error message, which can happen for two reasons. First, there may be remaining credits in an account, causing the system to become confused. Users with credits should receive a message asking if they want to forfeit those credits before going on to delete their accounts.The second potential problem involves users who also drive for Uber. Those users should be asked whether they want to delete their driver accounts, as well.Once all those steps have been completed, Uber says, your account should indeed be deleted.You’re darn right it does. The greater point, in my eyes, is that Uber was forced to create an ad hoc, automated system for deleting accounts because of how many requests it was getting. That’s significant.Here is Uber’s official statement on the issue, by the way, from a company spokesman:I’m not here to tell you what to do. For what it’s worth, Uber says it has set aside a $3 million fund to help drivers affected by the immigration ban.A lot of people decided to delete Uber and start using Lyft, but if you’re doing that to protest President Trump’s actions, you should probably know that Peter Thiel and Carl Icahn — two of Mr. Trump’s major supporters and advisers — also own substantial shares in Lyft. Take that how you will.Whatever the case, it seems as if Uber’s long history of being aggressive and developing a reputation as a bully of the transportation industry has come back to bite it at the worst possible time. Perhaps that won’t affect Uber in the long term, but it sure looks painful right now.

Volkswagen has agreed to pay more than $20 billion to settle civil and criminal suits in the United States over its diesel emissions scandal, affecting almost 600,000 cars. This is what that could mean for vehicle owners:Owners of more than 580,000 Volkswagen, Audi and Porsche diesel cars from the 2009-16 model years.Two-liter engines:2009-15 Volkswagen Jetta TDI2009-14 Volkswagen Jetta SportWagen TDI2012-15 Volkswagen Beetle TDI2012-15 Volkswagen Beetle Convertible TDI2010-15 Audi A3 TDI2010-15 Volkswagen Golf TDI2015 Volkswagen Golf SportWagen TDI2012-15 Volkswagen Passat TDIThree-liter engines:2009-16 Volkswagen Touareg2009-15 Audi Q72014-16 Audi A62014-16 Audi A72014-16 Audi A82014-16 Audi Q52013-16 Porsche Cayenne DieselOwners of two-liter vehicles and 2009-12 three-liter models can either sell them back to Volkswagen for a price reflecting their value before September 2015, when the diesel cheating became known, or have their cars repaired free. Customers can search for their vehicle identification numbers here. Volkswagen is still trying to fix newer three-liter vehicles to avoid having to buy them back.The fix, though, will probably reduce the engines’ performance and gas mileage.Volkswagen will separately offer affected owners of two-liter cars cash compensation of $5,100 to $10,000, depending on the model and year of the vehicle. They will also receive an additional $350 from Bosch, which supplied the engine software. Owners of three-liter cars will be entitled to compensation of $7,000 to $16,000, and $1,500 from Bosch.People who sold their cars after Sept. 18, 2015, when the cheating was publicly disclosed, will be offered half of the cash compensation offered to current owners.You can cancel your lease without penalty and receive half the compensation that an owner would.No, car owners may choose not to participate and instead sue Volkswagen for better terms. Those owners, however, would also risk getting a lesser settlement, or none at all, if their lawsuits are unsuccessful.Volkswagen is recalling or buying back the two-liter cars. All repairs and payments are to be made no later than December 2018.The settlement for three-liter cars, and Bosch’s share of the compensation, still is subject to review by a federal judge and a public comment period, which will take at least until May.
Shoppers buying a dozen eggs these days not only have to decide whether they want organic, free-range or cage-free. They also have to choose among cartons with labels like “American Humane Certified,” “Animal Welfare Approved” and “Certified Humane.”As the number of consumers concerned about animal welfare grows, such labels, or seals, as they are known in the business, are spreading like kudzu on packages of meat and eggs in the refrigerated cases of grocery stores, to assure shoppers that the cattle, pigs or chickens were treated well.But the labels may just as easily sow confusion or even mislead shoppers, who probably know little or nothing about the small number of organizations that create most of them and police the food producers that use them.“Consumers are looking behind the barn doors at these factory farms, and they don’t like what they’re seeing,” said Daisy Freund, the director of farm animal welfare at the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which created a website last year to help consumers navigate the seals. “Unfortunately, we know that when they hit the grocery store, they’re faced with a profound lack of transparency, accountability and, in some cases, downright deception when it comes to statements on packaging about humane treatment of animals.”So what are shoppers to make of these labels? Following are some basic facts:Most are issued by three nonprofit groups — the American Humane Association, Humane Farm Animal Care and A Greener World — that set their own standards for the practices needed to win certification. Food companies pay fees to use the labels; more than one billion of the more than nine billion animals raised for food each year in the United States are covered by a certification program.In addition, Whole Foods established the Global Animal Partnership, a five-step certification program it requires its suppliers to use; it is also used by a few small meat companies and small retailers.(Federal organic regulations set standards for animal care, though in some cases they are less rigorous than those of private certification groups.)But the phrases on the labels have no set meaning; the federal government has no rules for the use of words like “humane.” The term “free-range” on a product, for example, does not necessarily mean that an animal had access to pasture.The Agriculture Department does offer guidelines to meat producers, and requires them to submit applications and get permission before using terms like “humanely raised” or “raised with care” on packages. But it does not send out inspectors to test those claims.“It’s just a paperwork review,” said Dena Jones, the director of the farm animal program of the Animal Welfare Institute. “A producer has to fill out a very simple form, one page, two sides, and submit some supporting information.”That may be a one-sentence affidavit declaring something like, “I take good care of my animals,” she said. In some cases, meat companies submit their certifications from the labeling organizations; Ms. Jones’s group would like the federal government to require that all companies do the same.Even that is not an ideal solution. “Not all certification seals are created equal,” said Andrew DeCoriolis, a program director at Farm Forward, an animal advocacy group. “Companies can essentially pick the standards that are the easiest for them to meet.”Mr. DeCoriolis and many other animal welfare advocates say it’s no wonder the largest of the certifying groups is the American Humane Association, the group behind the “American Humane Certified” seal. Many of its standards, the advocates say, are less rigorous than other groups’, and therefore preferred by meat companies.The advocates noted that a number of the group’s standards are similar to those used in the meat industry. For instance, American Humane allows the level of ammonia in chicken houses to reach 25 parts per million — the standard the chicken industry recommends, and higher than the maximum level set by some other certifiers. High levels can render the birds sluggish and less likely to move, and even kill them.The group also allows farmers to wean piglets at 21 days, an industry standard that is a week less than what is permitted by two other certifiers, and half the time a piglet must suckle under standards set by Animal Welfare Approved, the certification program of A Greener World, which works to change agricultural practices.While other certifying groups require complete compliance with their standards, American Humane requires only that its clients achieve 85 percent of the total points possible for award during an audit (although they are asked to comply fully at some point).In May, American Humane stirred concern among other animal welfare groups by hiring as its director of marketing a lobbyist from Berman and Company, a public relations firm that is waging a forceful campaign against the Humane Society of the United States and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals.Robin Ganzert, the chief executive of American Humane, did not respond to emails or texts requesting an interview.Not all of American Humane’s standards are lower. For instance, it requires at least 21¾ square feet of outdoor space for hens laying eggs to be labeled free-range, or roughly 10 times the amount of space such hens must have to win the “Certified Humane” seal from the animal welfare certification program of Humane Farm Animal Care. (Humane Farm Animal Care defends its minimum of two square feet, saying it ensures that “hens will not have to go far to find cover, shade and nutrients.”)That difference led the Happy Egg Company, a free-range egg operation owned by the British firm Noble Foods, to switch from Humane Farm Animal Care to American Humane in 2015. “Two square feet per bird is not appropriate,” said David Wagstaff, the president of Happy Egg. “It’s fundamentally flawed from a standards perspective.”Such nuances make parsing the various labels difficult for shoppers. “I don’t think many consumers understand that there are these differences in certification standards,” said Temple Grandin, the animal scientist and noted champion of animal welfare. Ms. Grandin is on American Humane’s scientific advisory board and advises other certification groups. She acknowledged that the organization’s standards are not as rigorous as others’, but said it played to a special segment of the meat industry.“What A.H.A. is trying to do is work with large-scale commercial producers so that they have at least some standards,” she said. “But if you’re looking for strict confirmation of how long a cow has been in a feedlot, A.H.A. probably isn’t going to pass muster.”Consumers Union, the publisher of Consumer Reports, has been reassessing its evaluation of the standards set by the groups. “The only one we have any confidence in and think gives you value for your money is Animal Welfare Approved,” said Jean Halloran, the director of food policy initiatives at Consumers Union. “The rest of them have, to greater and lesser degrees, shortcomings — and American Humane in particular has a lot of shortcomings.”Perhaps that explains why the labels have become such a point of contention. Last year, a class-action lawsuit was filed against Foster Farms, a large poultry producer, questioning the “American Humane Certified” label on packages of its chicken. “The A.H.A. standards that Foster Farms purports to follow in order to attain ‘humane certification’ from the A.H.A. permit and even necessitate inhumane treatment on their face,” asserted the plaintiffs, who are consumers.In a lawsuit filed in May, Handsome Brook Farm, an egg company, sued Adele Douglass, the founder of Humane Farm Animal Care, after she sent a letter to some of the company’s customers contending that claims on its cartons that the hens were organic and pasture-raised could not always be verified.The Organic Consumers Association has sued Handsome Brook over those claims. Betsy Babcock, a founder of Handsome Brook, declined to comment on any litigation. But she said the company had chosen American Humane to certify its eggs after considering all of the certification groups.“We wanted to go with someone who had been doing this for a long time,” Ms. Babcock said. “The other thing was, we wanted to work with an organization whose standards are scientifically based and objective.”
Warren Buffett opens the door on his Nebraska life, but not necessarily his investment strategy. Things become positively vicious on “The Bachelor.” And Kim Cattrall stars in a sizzling BBC update of Agatha Christie's “The Witness for the Prosecution.”BECOMING WARREN BUFFETT (2017) 10 p.m. on HBO and HBO streaming platforms. Despite an estimated net worth of $74 billion, Mr. Buffett still lives modestly in his hometown, Omaha. From there he manages Berkshire Hathaway, the fourth-largest company in the world, and plans how to give away the majority of his fortune to philanthropic causes, mostly the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. “If you’re in the luckiest 1 percent of humanity, you owe it to the rest of humanity to think about the other 99 percent,” he has said. Here, Mr. Buffett allows the filmmaker Peter Kunhardt into his life — including his frequent chats with students, his daily reading sessions and his routine visits to McDonald’s — to chronicle how he became one of the richest men in the world, and how he changed the way Americans consider capitalism and charity. “At 86, actuarially, I know what’s in the books, but literally I get to do what I love, and it’s easy for me,” Mr. Buffett said in an interview with The New York Times. “I do not feel that my life is past its most interesting points.”THE BACHELOR 8 p.m. on ABC. Corinne and Taylor have a catfight. Then the 13 bachelorettes head to New Orleans for the dreaded two-on-one date with Nick.JANE THE VIRGIN 9 p.m. on CW. Jane (Gina Rodriguez) and Rafael worry that Mateo is lagging developmentally.MARY TYLER MOORE: A CELEBRATION 9 p.m. on PBS (check local listings). Nearly 47 years ago, Ms. Moore, who died on Wednesday, turned the world on with her smile and inspired a generation of women to toss their hats into the wind with the arrival of “The Mary Tyler Moore Show.” In this 2015 tribute, Dick Van Dyke, Betty White, Carl Reiner, Valerie Harper, Ed Asner and Cloris Leachman discuss what made Ms. Moore a national treasure. “I think Mary Tyler Moore has had more influence on my career than any other single person or force,” Oprah Winfrey says.AGATHA CHRISTIE’S THE WITNESS FOR THE PROSECUTION on Acorn TV. “I like young men,” Emily French, a wealthy widow in 1923 London, tells Leonard Vole, the waiter she has enlisted to drive her home. “I like their company. I like their skin. I like their muscles, their musk, their gleam, their vigor, their heft — and their spring. I like to look.” Soon, he’s getting paid to eat out of her hand. Not long after, he’s a suspect in her savage death. The screenwriter Sarah Phelps clears out the cobwebs and adds a modern sizzle to this BBC update of Christie’s 1925 story, starring Kim Cattrall (forever Samantha Jones of “Sex and the City”) as French, her beauty faintly diminished by age, her longing tinged with predation and pathos.
See the performance that earned Ruth Negga an Oscar nomination in “Loving,” about a landmark civil rights case. Or get your jollies from amusing partnerships in “The Nice Guys” and “Ghostbusters.”LOVING (2016) on iTunes and Amazon. Ruth Negga, a newly anointed Oscar nominee, plays Mildred Loving, and Joel Edgerton is her husband, Richard, in Jeff Nichols’s fictionalized account of the interracial couple whose battle for the right to have their marriage recognized in 1950s Virginia went to the Supreme Court. Ms. Negga’s performance is “a revelation,” Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times, noting the startling effect of the film’s “insistent, quotidian quiet” as it imagines the historical figures “as they once were, when they were people instead of monuments to American exceptionalism.” She added: “It was, the movie insists, the absolute ordinariness of their love that defined them, and that made the fight for it into an indelible story of this country.”AMERICANO (2012) on Mubi. After his mother’s death, a young Frenchman (Mathieu Demy, the son of the filmmakers Agnès Varda and Jacques Demy, who also directs here) returns to the Los Angeles house where he spent his childhood with her, only to find himself drawn into corners of her life that he knew nothing about. Incorporating scenes from Ms. Varda’s 1981 “Documenteur,” in which Mathieu Demy plays a small boy named Martin, this film is something of a sequel. “It is wistful and nostalgic, and at the same time full of restless curiosity,” A. O. Scott wrote in The Times.THE MARY TYLER MOORE SHOW 6 a.m. on SundanceTV. The network pays tribute to Ms. Moore, who died on Wednesday, with a marathon of the show’s final season.THE NICE GUYS (2016) 8 p.m. on HBO. Ryan Gosling and Russell Crowe buddy up as a bumbling private investigative duo scouring 1977 Los Angeles for the murderer of a porn star named Misty Mountains. “Dumb can be fun,” A. O. Scott wrote in The Times about Shane Black’s slapstick thriller.GHOSTBUSTERS (2016) 9 p.m. on Starz. This new “Ghostbusters” is a lot like the old one, except that it stars Melissa McCarthy, Leslie Jones, Kate McKinnon and Kristen Wiig. And while no one performance dominates, Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times, Ms. McKinnon’s nerd goddess embodies Paul Feig’s new “Ghostbusters” at its best: “Girls rule, women are funny, get over it.”THE PLAYER (1992) 9:45 p.m. on TCM. The production manager (Tim Robbins) at a Hollywood studio fends off a young genius (Peter Gallagher) rumored to be his replacement while at the same time becoming a suspect in the murder of a screenwriter, partly for having fallen in love with the dead man’s girlfriend (Greta Scacchi). It’s part of a Robert Altman lineup in tribute to Lily Tomlin, the recipient of this year’s Screen Actors Guild Life Achievement Award. “The Late Show” leads in at 8; “Nashville” follows at midnight.
Actors vote for their favorite performances by their peers — and herald Lily Tomlin for her life’s work — at the SAG Awards. “Dateline NBC” pays tribute to Tom Brokaw’s half-century career. And it’s Royals Night on PBS.THE 23RD ANNUAL SCREEN ACTORS GUILD AWARDS 8 p.m. on TBS and TNT. Performers honor their peers in movies and television in this ceremony, broadcast live from the Shrine Exposition Center in Los Angeles. “Captain Fantastic,” “Fences,” “Hidden Figures,” “Manchester by the Sea” and “Moonlight” will compete for outstanding performance by a cast in a motion picture. Casey Affleck, Andrew Garfield, Ryan Gosling, Viggo Mortensen and Denzel Washington are in the running for best actor; Amy Adams, Emily Blunt, Natalie Portman, Emma Stone and Meryl Streep are nominees for best actress. And Jane Fonda and Dolly Parton will present Lily Tomlin with a life achievement award. Red carpet coverage leads in at 6 on E!THE 65TH MISS UNIVERSE PAGEANT 7 p.m. on Fox and Azteca America. Steve Harvey tries to get the winner’s name right — as opposed to last year — when he hosts this beauty pageant from Manila.THE WOLF OF WALL STREET (2013) 8 p.m. on FX Movie. Leonardo DiCaprio stars as Jordan Belfort, a crooked stock trader and despicable human being — whose charm makes him almost impossible to despise — wallowing in the ecstasies of money in Martin Scorsese’s bacchanal of sex, drugs and greed. Matthew McConaughey is the brokerage firm honcho who teaches Jordan that a broker’s only mission is to make money for himself. Jonah Hill is the first of the losers to join Jordan’s penny-stock outfit, which has a fake blue-blood name, once the 1987 crash flushes him out of Wall Street. And Margot Robbie is the trophy wife Jordan eventually upgrades to. “This movie,” A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times, “may tire you out with its hammering, swaggering excess, but it is never less than wide-awake.”TOM BROKAW: THE FIRST 50 YEARS 9 p.m. on NBC. “Dateline NBC” celebrates a half-century in Mr. Brokaw’s career, with the help of Oprah Winfrey, Bill Gates, Tom Hanks, Jon Stewart, Lin-Manuel Miranda, David Letterman and Lorne Michaels.VICTORIA 9 p.m. on PBS. Albert pays Victoria a visit, against her wishes. I mean, it’s not as if they had a future. In “Secrets of the Six Wives,” at 10, the British historian Lucy Worsley dons period costume to contemplate the lusty appetites of Henry VIII from his wives’ point of view. The exposé continues as he grows tired of Anne Boleyn, for whom he severed England from the Roman Catholic Church to marry, and orders her beheaded. Then he marries Jane Seymour, who dies not long after giving birth to Edward, a legitimate male heir.BLACK SAILS 9 p.m. on Starz. The fourth and final season finds the pirates at war in the West Indies, and the shores of New Providence Island a bloody mess.THE AFFAIR 10 p.m. on Showtime. Season 3 in the meltdown of Noah Solloway (Dominic West), and his ex-wives, Helen and Alison, comes to an end.
“Switched at Birth,” which sensitively explores life for the hearing-impaired, begins its final season. Cindy Crawford looks back at her famous Pepsi commercial on its 25th anniversary. And FilmStruck presents the works of Iranian filmmakers, including one by Asghar Farhadi, who has said he won’t attend the Oscar ceremony in February because of President Trump’s visa ban.SWITCHED AT BIRTH 9 p.m. on Freeform. This Peabody-winning series returns for its fifth and final season to find Bay (Vanessa Marano) and Daphne (Katie Leclerc) back at home from 10 months in China after an emergency phone call. With a cast of deaf and hearing-impaired actors, and the use of sign language, the show has, “in its quiet way, broken down barriers that many viewers didn’t even know were there,” Neil Genzlinger wrote in The Times.SUPER BOWL GREATEST COMMERCIALS 2017 8 p.m. on CBS. Cindy Crawford reminisces about stepping out of a red Lamborghini in cutoffs for Pepsi in this special, whose Top 10 ads pit “bigger is better” against “less is more.” Viewers vote on the winner.A SEPARATION (2011) on FilmStruck. A couple (Leila Hatami and Peyman Moaadi) must decide whether to leave Iran for the sake of their daughter or stay to care for a parent with dementia — either of which could end their marriage. Asghar Farhadi’s Oscar winner for best foreign- language film “is a rigorously honest movie about the difficulties of being honest, a film that tries to be truthful about the slipperiness of truth,” A. O. Scott wrote in The Times. Mr. Farhadi, whose film “The Salesman” is nominated for another Osar this year, has said he will not attend the Academy Awards because of President Trump’s visa ban for citizens from Iran and six other predominantly Muslim countries.VOLCOM PIPE PRO on Red Bull TV. Some of the world’s best surfers, including Kelly Slater, Jamie O’Brien and John John Florence, prepare to ride the Banzai Pipeline in Oahu, Hawaii, whose waves can top 20 feet. The competition runs through Feb. 10, with daily action dependent on the weather.MONOGAMY (2011) on Fandor. A wedding photographer (Chris Messina) living in Brooklyn bliss with his fiancée (Rashida Jones) makes money on the side by sneaking shots of strangers who pay him to take their pictures secretly — he calls himself a Gumshoot — the better to see themselves as others do. But things take a turn for the kinky when a woman (Meital Dohan) hires him to shoot her in sexually provocative situations. And he just can’t stop looking. The film has “modest resources, some nice digital camerawork and an appealing cast,” Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times. “The likable Ms. Jones draws you in easily,” she added, and the director Dana Adam Shapiro “keeps you engaged even when his story falters.”555 on Vimeo. John Early and Kate Berlant, with help from the director Andrew DeYoung, skewer Hollywood in five short films, each with an overwrought relationship at its heart. Mr. Early and Ms. Berlant perform their stand-up routine at Joe’s Pub in New York on Tuesday through Friday.
A Northeastern college president heads south in “The Quad,” the latest creation from Felicia D. Henderson, of “Soul Food” fame. “Nature” uses robotic creatures to spy in the wild, with adorable results. And Jonathan Rhys Meyers joins “Vikings.”THE QUAD 10 p.m. on BET. Anika Noni Rose stars as Dr. Eva Fletcher, the first female president of the historically black Georgia A&M University, whose mission is to push the institution to the top of the pack — and redeem her reputation after being booted from her last job. Ruben Santiago-Hudson is Cecil Diamond, the charismatic but ruthless leader of the college’s prestigious band, who isn’t about to take marching orders from a woman. “It’s an urbane, relatively low-key prime-time soap opera with an attractive cast,” Mike Hale wrote in The New York Times. “If it finds an audience on BET, where the ratings pressure shouldn’t be too onerous, it could be around awhile.” “Madiba,” a three-part mini-series with Laurence Fishburne as Nelson Mandela, leads in at 8.SPY IN THE WILD: A NATURE MINI-SERIES 8 p.m. on PBS. That video in which a group of monkeys holds a funeral for a robotic baby monkey that has fallen from a tree? It’s in this “Nature” presentation, which places spy creatures alongside wild dogs, elephants, crocodiles and penguins to test the limits of animal love.VIKINGS 9 p.m. on History. In the Season 4 finale, Jonathan Rhys Meyers joins the cast as Heahmund, a warrior bishop — and worthy opponent to Ivar the Boneless (Alex Hogh Andersen) — in preparation for a beefy role in Season 5.IN A BETTER WORLD (2011) on Amazon and iTunes. In Susanne Bier’s Oscar-winning best foreign-language film, a Swedish doctor, Anton (Mikael Persbrandt), divides his time between his semi-estranged wife (Trine Dyrholm) and two sons in Denmark and a refugee camp in Africa, where his patients are victims of a warlord. At first, Anton confronts the horror stoically. But when his older child (Markus Rygaard) exacts revenge against a bully at school, and the warlord comes to his clinic seeking treatment, Anton’s calm facade cracks. The performances are impeccable and the scenery lovely, A. O. Scott wrote in The Times. But “everything about ‘In a Better World’ feels just a little too easy: A better movie might have let in more of the messiness of the world as it is.”THE HUNT (2013) on Tribeca Shortlist. Mads Mikkelsen won best actor at Cannes for his portrayal of Lucas, a well-loved kindergarten teacher who becomes the target of a witch hunt in a Danish village after being accused of sexually assaulting his best friend’s young daughter. But when the girl admits that she has an innocent crush on Lucas — and when it becomes clear that she has confused matters after glimpsing pornography on her older brother’s iPad — none of the adults will listen. The director, Thomas Vinterberg, “has a gift for evoking the atavistic side of human nature,” Stephen Holden wrote in The Times.
MANHATTAN, Kan. — She was 18, majoring in pre-medicine and settling in for her first year at Kansas State University, her dream school. Barely six weeks later, Crystal Stroup’s college career was suddenly and violently derailed.In October 2015, after a small get-together at their apartment, her friends got worried because Ms. Stroup had had too much to drink. They enlisted the clean-cut male student from downstairs to look after her while they went out for food.The next morning, Ms. Stroup woke up disoriented and in pain. Large bruises in the shape of hand prints were emerging on her upper arm and thigh. She struggled to go to class, where she told a friend, “I’ve been raped.”Kansas State University had been warned about the man, Jared Gihring. Another student, Sara Weckhorst, said she had complained to university officials more than a year earlier that he had raped her while she was passed out drunk at a fraternity house.On Jan. 3, Mr. Gihring, 22, pleaded not guilty to charges of raping both women. A lawyer for Mr. Gihring, Brenda Jordan, did not respond to requests for comment.But it was only after Mr. Gihring’s arrest by the police here in July — more than two years after Ms. Weckhorst first complained — that Kansas State took action to expel him.Whether or not Ms. Stroup’s alleged rape was foreseeable — one of the issues posed by a lawsuit she filed against the university — her case raises disturbing questions about repeat offenses on campus, and whether universities do enough to prevent them.For several years, researchers have been fiercely debating how many campus rapes are committed by serial offenders. A 2002 study based on surveys of 1,882 college men and published in Violence and Victims, an academic journal, found that as many as 63 percent of those who admitted to behaviors that fit the definition of rape or attempted rape said they had engaged in those behaviors more than once.But in 2015, a study of 1,642 men at two different colleges was published in JAMA Pediatrics and found that while a larger number of men admitted to behaviors that constituted rape, a smaller percentage of them, closer to 25 percent, were repeat offenders.The difference could affect how universities approach rape investigations and prevention. For example, repeat cases raise questions of whether universities should be faster to remove students from campus after accusations.“There are repeat offenders who seek out victims and will do this time and time again with impunity because there is no punishment,” said Annie E. Clark, a co-founder of End Rape on Campus, a nonprofit organization that works to assist those who have been raped and to prevent campus sexual violence. She added, “Whatever the number is, it’s way, way too high.”A few recent cases, and the lawsuits they have spawned — like the one at Kansas State — have again put a spotlight on repeat campus rapes, and the questions they leave about whether something could have been done. Many university administrators say they are hampered in sexual assault investigations by women who are reluctant to identify their assailants or press charges. They also say that assaults frequently occur during parties at which students were drinking, leaving their memories clouded and the truth of what happened elusive.At Kansas State, the federal government is now involved, investigating the university’s handling of the 2014 complaint by Ms. Weckhorst. The university is facing lawsuits by Ms. Weckhorst and another Kansas State student, Tessa Farmer, who also alleges she reported a rape that was not properly investigated, as well as the case brought by Ms. Stroup, now 19, who joined Ms. Weckhorst’s lawsuit in November.At Indiana University, a former student, John P. Enochs, pleaded guilty last year to misdemeanor battery, the result of a plea bargain. He had initially faced two counts of rape. A lawsuit filed against the university in June by one of his accusers, identified as Jane Doe 62, says Mr. Enochs raped her while she was passed out from drinking at his fraternity house. The suit says the university ignored Mr. Enochs’s history of sexual assault, failing to take steps to protect her from rape.Nearly two years before Jane Doe 62 said she was raped, Mr. Enochs had been accused of sexual assault by another student. That woman supplied his name to university police, but initially declined to press charges.In a statement by its spokeswoman, Margie Smith-Simmons, the university said its policy “provides for prompt response, a fair, impartial and robust investigation, and adjudication process when responding to reports of alleged sexual assault.” But, she added, “our ability to do so is also reliant on the involvement and cooperation of those who may have been harmed.”Stanford University is fighting a lawsuit by a student who says she was sexually assaulted in 2014 by a man who had done the same to another student as early as 2011 and physically or sexually assaulted two other students. Nonetheless, the lawsuit says, the university permitted him to remain on campus through his 2014 graduation.The university — roiled last year by the Brock Turner sexual assault case and more recently by an article in The New York Times about its handling of sexual assault accusations against a football player — says in its court papers in the lawsuit that the first woman did not identify the man for nearly a year, then initially declined to participate in an investigation.“We have sympathy for the plaintiff in this case, but we will be vigorously defending the lawsuit as we believe that Stanford has acted with appropriate diligence and compassion within the constraints of privacy laws,” said a university spokeswoman, Lisa Lapin.Denise Cordova, the director of the office that investigates sexual assault accusations at the University of Nevada, Reno, said most students do not provide the name of the person they say assaulted them. “I think, from my perspective,” she said, “we don’t always have the information about the person who has done this.”That was not the situation, however, at Kansas State.Danielle Dempsey-Swopes, a former Kansas State University sexual assault investigator, said she urged the college to be more aggressive in handling sexual assault complaints, ultimately reporting the university to the United States Education Department. “It makes me feel terrible that we might have been able to prevent it,” she said.She and others at Kansas State say the problem was that the university had taken the position that it was not responsible for investigating accusations of rape in fraternity houses because they are off campus.In her complaint to the Education Department, Ms. Dempsey-Swopes said she was ordered to “stall” investigating a rape accusation at a fraternity house because the university did not want to be responsible. Also, the departing president of the university’s Interfraternity Council, Zach Lowry, said the university referred sexual assault complaints involving fraternities to his organization without investigation.“When we get these, they’re pretty disturbing,” said Mr. Lowry, a senior political science major from Stockton, Kan. “When we give them to our judicial board, they’re students. They’re not trained to handle investigations.”Officials at Kansas State declined requests for interviews, but, in a statement, the university said its protocol was to “address misconduct and safety concerns expeditiously and it always has been.” It added that “the blanket statement that K-State does not investigate off-campus incidents is simply inaccurate.”But Ms. Stroup believes her rape could have been prevented if the university had heeded warnings from Ms. Weckhorst, of Doylestown, Pa.On April 26, 2014, when she was a 19-year-old freshman, Ms. Weckhorst had joined friends at Pillsbury Crossing, a recreation area near Kansas State’s campus that is known for its picturesque waterfalls and a shallow swimming area. After drinking as many as 13 shots of liquor, she said, she recalled little of what happened that day after 4 p.m.When she woke up hours later, she said, she was in a room filled with beds, completely naked, intoxicated and confused. As she lay face up on a mattress, a man she did not know was having sexual intercourse with her.“When Sara was able to get the male off her, she got up from the mattress and at that time the male made a statement that he wasn’t the first guy she’d had sex with that day,” the police report said.The man told Ms. Weckhorst that she also had sex twice that day with another man — once in the bed of a truck at Pillsbury Crossing and again when he drove her to the Sigma Nu fraternity house, according to the police report.Word of what had happened at Pillsbury Crossing circulated on the social media app Yik Yak, according to Ms. Weckhorst’s lawsuit.Ms. Weckhorst filed a complaint with an investigator for the university, naming Mr. Gihring and the other man, both Sigma Nu pledges.But the university employee told her that because the reported events occurred off campus, Kansas State would not take any action, according to her lawsuit.After the semester ended, she and her parents met with university officials on campus.“This will continue to affect our daughter for the rest of her life,” her mother said during the meeting. Nothing “will ever Band-Aid what has been done by this facility of higher education.”Mr. Gihring, of Newton, Kan., eventually moved to University Crossing, an apartment complex within view of the university’s football stadium. Ms. Stroup arrived at Kansas State from Clay Center, Kan., for her freshman year in August 2015. She also moved into University Crossing, in an apartment near Mr. Gihring.The lawsuit she filed in November says that, after the small gathering at their apartment on Oct. 6, 2015, her roommates left Mr. Gihring to watch over her while they went for food. “Once alone in the apartment, J.G. went into Crystal’s bedroom and raped her,” the complaint says, referring to Ms. Stroup.On the advice of her lawyer, Cari Simon, Ms. Stroup would not discuss details of that night because she may be called to testify in the criminal trial against Mr. Gihring, scheduled for May.Ms. Stroup said she had been under immense stress, partly because it was impossible to avoid Mr. Gihring on campus and at her apartment complex. Ultimately it affected her grades and forced her to drop out of school, she said.She now works in a nursing home kitchen, not exactly the health care career she had hoped for. “I don’t know how to pick up the pieces and start over again,” she said.
SYDNEY, Australia — On a December day in 1988, a teenager on a spearfishing expedition found a body at the bottom of one of the wild, honey-colored sandstone cliffs that line Sydney Harbor.Naked, torn and battered by the rocks, the dead man was a promising American mathematician, Scott Johnson. His clothes were found at the top of the cliff in a neat pile with his digital watch, student ID and a $10 bill, folded in a small plastic sheath. There was no wallet, and no note.The police concluded that Mr. Johnson, 27, had committed suicide, and a coroner agreed. Fatal leaps from the cliffs around Sydney into the fierce sea below were not uncommon, then or now.But 28 years later, a new inquest into Mr. Johnson’s death has begun. His brother, a wealthy Boston tech entrepreneur, has pressed the Australian authorities for years to revisit the case, arguing that Mr. Johnson was murdered because he was gay and that the police failed to see it.If so, it appears Mr. Johnson may not have been the only one.During the 1980s and 1990s, the Australian authorities now say, gangs of teenagers in Sydney hunted gay men for sport, sometimes forcing them off the cliffs to their deaths. But the police, many of whom had a reputation for hostility toward gay men, often carried out perfunctory investigations that overlooked the possibility of homicide, former officials and police officers say.Now the police in New South Wales, the state that includes Sydney, are reviewing the deaths of 88 men between 1976 and 2000 to determine whether they should be classified as anti-gay hate crimes.About 30 of the cases remain unsolved, and the police have not said how many of the killings were tied to gangs. About a dozen victims were found dead at the bottom of cliffs or in the sea, the police say.The review and the inquest into Mr. Johnson’s death are casting light on a shocking chapter of Sydney’s history, one that some say has yet to be fully revealed.“We can now see that predators were attacking gay men,” said Ted Pickering, who was the police minister for New South Wales in the late 1980s. “And they were doing it with the almost-certain knowledge that the police would not have gone after them. That was the police culture of the day.”No new arrests have been made in connection with the killings since the review began in 2013, and the police declined to discuss the open investigations. In many of the cases under review, the police said, relevant evidence had not been collected at the time or has since been lost.“While the review is a difficult task because we can’t rewrite history, we know it is important we do everything we can to ensure the best outcomes in the future,” said Tony Crandell, an acting assistant commissioner for the New South Wales Police Force.But others have suggested that the review, which aims to determine which cases may involve bias but not to solve them, is not a sufficient response.“It may be tempting for the police to concentrate on merely relabeling crimes rather than doing fresh detective work to solve them,” said Stephen Tomsen, a criminologist at Western Sydney University.Sydney is a more tolerant city than it was decades ago, and critics say that police attitudes have changed considerably. Uniformed officers now march in Sydney’s annual Gay and Lesbian Mardi Gras Parade, which drew a quarter-million spectators last year and was attended for the first time by a prime minister, Malcolm Turnbull.But if the laws were changing slowly in the 1980s — New South Wales decriminalized sex between men only in 1984 — society, including the police, was even slower to do so.“The police culture in Australia up to the early 1990s was hostile to gay men,” Michael Kirby, a retired High Court justice who served during that period, wrote in an email. “They were basically considered antisocial, low-level criminals and lowlife types who did disgusting things and should not be surprised that they got injured and even killed.”Justice Kirby, who is gay, added, “I do not believe that this extended to a general conspiracy to back off professional investigations of murder.” Rather, he said, there was “an attitude of complacency and indifference. Certainly not the usual motivation of energy to track down the murderers.”Researchers who have studied the matter say the gangs were loose alliances of young men, teenage boys and sometimes girls who looked for victims to harass and assault at Sydney’s so-called gay beats — places where gay men were known to meet, including secluded spots on the cliffs. The gang members called it “poofter bashing.”“There was a series of gangs,” said Stephen Page, a former New South Wales detective who reopened some of the cases years later. “They wouldn’t just hit one beat, they’d be aware of all of them.”Few victims would have gone to the police, Professor Tomsen said. Most gay men were closeted, and many would have feared being assaulted by the police themselves. After the city’s first gay Mardi Gras parade was broken up by the police in 1978, some marchers were beaten in their jail cells.“Any gay who was attacked would be seen as a foolish risk-taker if they reported that attack to police,” Professor Tomsen said.Still, there were some arrests and prosecutions. In 1990, a Thai man was attacked with a hammer at the top of a cliff and fell off the edge. Three teenagers were arrested and convicted of murder.According to a report by Sue Thompson, a former state-appointed liaison between the New South Wales police and gays, one of the assailants told the police, “The easiest thing with a cliff is just herding them over the edge.”The idea that the killing was part of a pattern was not seriously pursued until years later. In 2000, Mr. Page, spurred by letters from a grieving mother, reopened the case of Ross Warren, a 25-year-old television news anchor who disappeared in 1989.Mr. Warren’s body was never found, though his car keys were discovered in a rock ledge. The police concluded that he had accidentally fallen into the harbor. But Mr. Page found the original investigation had been cursory at best.“There was no crime scene, no evidence, and no witnesses to Ross Warren’s disappearance,” he said.Mr. Page began looking into similar cases. In 2005, an inquest concluded that Mr. Warren had been murdered, another man had been pushed or thrown from a cliff, and there was a strong possibility that a third man had been, too.“This was a grossly inadequate and shameful investigation,” Magistrate Jacqueline Milledge, a deputy state coroner, said of the police handling of Mr. Warren’s death.In all three cases, she said, the police had failed to account for the possibility of homicide, even though men attacked in the same area who did go to the police had “told of hearing their assailants threatening to throw them off the cliff face.” The three killings remain unsolved.When Steve Johnson learned that such cases were being revisited in Sydney, he felt he finally had a possible explanation for his younger brother’s death. Mr. Johnson had looked out for Scott since childhood, when their parents divorced, and he considered suicide impossible.“This was my brother, the person I was closest to, my soul mate,” Mr. Johnson, 57, said in December, outside the Sydney courtroom where the inquest began.Scott Johnson had moved to Australia to be with his partner and was pursuing his doctorate at Australian National University in Canberra. He was a “virtuoso” mathematician, a “brilliant but remarkably gentle and unassuming presence,” according to Richard Zeckhauser, a Harvard economist who once wrote a paper with him.Scott Johnson had applied for permanent residency, and his professional prospects were good.“He would have been a first-round draft pick for any university in any part of the world,” his brother said. “He had no reason to be stressed or unhappy.”The day he disappeared, Scott Johnson told his Ph.D. supervisor, Ross Street of Macquarie University in Sydney, that he’d had a breakthrough on a vexing problem that was crucial to his dissertation.“It sounded like he had the whole thing in his head,” Professor Street said at the December inquest. “He was happy about it. I was happy about it.”Today, evidence of what happened to Mr. Johnson, as in many of these cases, is scant. He was found below a gay hangout, but the local police officer who responded to the call testified that he had not known that at the time.The police found no signs of a struggle at the cliff top, but there had been a storm that could have washed such evidence away. The site was never secured as a crime scene.In the years after Mr. Johnson’s death, his brother became wealthy in the 1990s tech boom, selling a company that developed compression technology for delivering sound and video over the internet to America Online.After reading about the 2005 inquest on the Sydney cliff deaths, Steve Johnson began devoting some of his resources to finding out what had happened to his brother. He hired an investigative journalist, Daniel Glick, to go to Australia to dig up court records and other documents. And he assembled an array of high-powered lawyers — his legal team includes a former Massachusetts attorney general, Martha Coakley, who said her firm took the case pro bono — to argue for reopening the case.In 2012, a new inquest overturned the original finding of suicide. But the coroner reached no conclusion about how Mr. Johnson had died, saying that while anti-gay violence was a possibility, so was an accidental fall.When the current inquest resumes in June, it will hear new evidence, the coroner’s office has said.Whatever the result, Steve Johnson and others hope it will spur further investigations of these cases.“There was clearly a pattern to these deaths,” said Margaret Sheil, whose brother Peter was found dead at the base of a cliff in 1983. “Today, it is extraordinary to think that we would not have had an open discussion about what happened. And if we had, it might have prevented it happening to someone else.”
America’s first-ever Bruckner cycle is over. Daniel Barenboim and his Staatskapelle Berlin spent nearly two weeks at Carnegie Hall, playing the nine sprawling symphonies of the Austrian master Anton Bruckner (1824-1896) in nine remarkable concerts that culminated in the visionary, unfinished Ninth on Sunday afternoon. Two critics for The New York Times, Corinna da Fonseca-Wollheim and Zachary Woolfe, were there — neither for the whole cycle, but each for a healthy chunk.ZACHARY WOOLFE I think we should come clean right off the bat, Corinna. Neither of us went into this as particularly big Bruckner fans. What was your beef?CORINNA DA FONSECA-WOLLHEIM I’ve always found it hard to make any genuine emotional connection to Bruckner’s music. His symphonies seemed impressive, all right, and those glittering brass fanfares can be thrilling. But the endless development sections, with their incessant repetitions of a motif, tend to suck all the flavor out of an idea. And there always seemed to be an air of pomposity to the huge (we’re talking 20 minutes plus) movements.WOOLFE For me there’s always been a sense that his symphonies don’t take place in the real world. You’re either in the middle of hellishly pummeling “Lord of the Rings”-style battles or you’re at the transcendent Pearly Gates. There feels like little in between. Many people clearly respond to that intensely heightened quality, but pseudo-medieval self-importance has never really been my bag.The immersive aspect of this cycle did make an impact on me — particularly with a composer like Bruckner, whose symphonies all feel, in a way, so alike, digging deeper rather than spreading over more territory. And yet the later symphonies integrate moods and material more powerfully: There’s something so awkward about the Fifth — the meandering buildup of the final movement! — compared with the inexorable focus of the Eighth. (Though even in that later work, we are trudged through transformation after transformation of the burly “Game of Thrones”-like theme in the Scherzo.)DA FONSECA-WOLLHEIM I tried my best to listen to the Second with an open mind. But the lack of flow, which some of Bruckner’s contemporaries skewered, really stood out. Bruckner said that the pauses he used to separate blocks of thematic material were like an orator drawing breath, but what came across was a nervous and inexperienced public speaker.That said, I heard six symphonies over 10 days, and the level of playing was uniformly impressive. Hearing this music live is also a whole different experience from recordings: Nothing beats the thrill of feeling the ground vibrate under your feet during a timpani roll, or absorbing the shock wave of a brass section at full tilt.WOOLFE This orchestra made as good a case for the music as I’ve ever heard live. Mr. Barenboim kept it vital, flowing: He didn’t linger either on the bombast or the Adagio exhalations. The playing had power and transparency, a real sense of layers. I was so struck in the first movement of the Ninth by the coexistence of milky winds, spiraling strings, roaring brasses and the slightest shudder of timpani; so many colors and textures, in perfect balance.DA FONSECA-WOLLHEIM My experience in the hall was inevitably colored by what has happened in the world, beginning with a presidential inauguration that was heavy on nationalist rhetoric. Perhaps my biggest gripe about Bruckner has been how perfectly suited his music is to communal veneration. A lot of people who love Mahler also love Bruckner, and there are similarities. But Mahler always puts the individual — the doubting, neurotic individual — at the center. In Bruckner, the triumphant hero of too many movements seems to be a “we.”Take the Scherzo of the Ninth, its driving rhythm pounded out in unison by the huge string section: wildness tamed and bunched into a collective. It seems to contain all that is both seductive and terrifying about the unified energy of the masses — what the Polish dissident poet Czeslaw Milosz describes as the “trireme of the totalitarian state, speeding ahead with outspread oars.” It’s music to go to battle to — and the Nazis did, making Bruckner the star of their weekly classical broadcasts in the latter years of World War II.WOOLFE It was impossible to ignore the events going on outside Carnegie Hall. And they were on Mr. Barenboim’s mind, too: He gave a stirring speech after the first concert about the ability of America to “make the world great.”But what sometimes gets to me is the opposite of your reaction. I find Bruckner too individual, too focused on a single, seemingly autobiographical figure — ever-besieged, ever-triumphant. (White, male, mocked by urban elites for his provincial manners and dress — sound familiar?) His symphonies may rouse the crowd — Nazi or otherwise — but their basic narratives kept feeling so insular at a moment so focused on communal action.DA FONSECA-WOLLHEIM That’s an interesting way to put it. I sometimes felt it wasn’t individual enough. Or, rather, not sufficiently embodied: a kind of sexless protagonist grappling with abstract demons. The dance movements in Bruckner are always correct, rarely sensual. But by the final weekend, I did start to enjoy the physicality of the sound itself — and yes, the Berlin Staatskapelle can whip up a glorious one — as an end in itself.And that unfinished Ninth finally produced the heart-in-your-throat emotional identification that I had been waiting for. The Adagio is built on a gesture of a minor ninth, a huge upward scooping interval that seems to express both hubris and hope.Of course, this wasn’t supposed to be the last movement. But as it was, Barenboim’s epic Bruckner traversal ended with the horns holding a radiant but scarily fragile note for what seems like an eternity. For me, it was an appropriate question mark, left hanging over all the musical and political turbulence of the past two weeks.
Q. My phone’s camera has taken blurry photos since I dropped it. Is there a way to repair the camera, or do I need to get a new phone?A. A smartphone’s camera is just one of its many internal components, and it can probably be replaced for much less money and effort than it would take to buy and set up a new phone. It could cost perhaps $50 or $60, depending on the phone model and repair shop. (The phone’s casing will be opened so the new camera unit can be installed. Before you have it serviced, back up everything to the cloud or your computer so your data is safe.)First, you may want to rule out any software or physical issues with the phone and its camera. Make sure that the lens is not dirty and that the latest app and system updates have been installed. Reset the camera app’s settings if you have not already done so. Try another camera app to make sure the problem does not lie in the software, and test the camera in a variety of situations. The phone’s manufacturer may even have suggestions for specific issues or be aware of defective hardware, like Apple’s iSight Camera Replacement Program for iPhone 6 Plus.If you have concluded the camera is indeed damaged, seeking out a repair shop is the next step. A quick web search should turn up the smartphone repair shops in your area, along with mail-in service centers, but read the professional and customer reviews of any place under consideration. Retail chains like Best Buy, Staples and Office Depot also offer repair services, as do Apple stores.Repair options can include sending the phone to a service depot for several days, or having a technician fix it on the spot. If you have an extended warranty like Apple’s AppleCare, repairs may be free or less expensive than for out-of-warranty iPhones. The plan has a $99 iPhone Express Replacement Service benefit for damaged devices.If you do not want to part with your phone during the repair period — and do not mind prying open the device — you might be able to replace the broken camera yourself. The iFixit repair-guide site has a number of free tutorials showing how to install a new camera in several smartphone models, and it sells the tools and parts, too.
From my first steps onto campus, I was determined to make my Nigerian parents proud and to seize the opportunities they had left their native country for. I had graduated high school in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada’s most eastern province, at the top of my class and as student body vice president. Being the single black student in a school of 600 had been immaterial to me. I had not developed a sense of black identity because, simply, I did not have to.So here I was at the University of Western Ontario, the sole black on a dormitory floor made up mostly of white students from Toronto and a few ethnic minorities. It was, for most of us, the first time we were living away from home, and we spent time asking honest and sometimes naïve questions about one another, including ones about religion and race. It proved to be a safe, collegial space to check our biases. Or so I thought.A few months in, we received an email notification that our exam grades were available. One by one, the pre-meds among us logged onto the reporting system to access our scores and, following the lead of one floor mate, shared them aloud. Each of us had already fallen prey to the paranoia that even a single mediocre grade would compromise our chances of medical school acceptance.“76!” a friend proclaimed, appearing satisfied. “80” from my roommate. “74” from another. “72,” lamented another. Then I nervously stepped up to enter my login. “94!” I declared in relief.Most of the others donned looks of approval or surprise, while one, an Indo-Canadian business student, was notably shocked. “Are you trying to be white, Bolu?!” he jeered. The others laughed boisterously at the question.I was confused. Surely, performing well didn’t make me any less black, did it? This was the first time I saw myself as a racialized minority in the context of an educational institution. Some of my peers, it seems, were subscribing to the stereotype of black underachievement.Throughout my undergraduate years I would hear comments of derision about “acting white.” Coming from black and white colleagues alike, this quip was particularly common when I decided to pass up social activities to study. I would often succumb to peer pressure in the hope of fitting in, and I found myself second-guessing my dedication toward academics.Similar experiences were described in the work of another man of Nigerian ancestry. In his 2003 book “Black American Students in an Affluent Suburb,” John U. Ogbu, then a professor of anthropology at the University of California at Berkeley, described how black youth are often seen as betraying their cultural identities by aspiring to academic success.After months of fieldwork in the affluent Shaker Heights suburb of Cleveland, he had developed what he called the “cultural-ecological theory of academic disengagement”: The education gap between black and white students could be partly explained by students underperforming to avoid derision by their peers. It was indeed a controversial finding.Dr. Ogbu, who died a few months after his book was published, classified immigrants like my family — those who chose to migrate to settler societies like Canada and the United States — as voluntary minorities who accepted many aspects of the culture they had chosen.In contrast, he described involuntary minorities — indigenous people and those who came here as part of the slave trade — as suffering from marginalization and discrimination for multiple generations. Some of these individuals, he found, were less trusting of educational institutions, which they saw as part of the system that contributed to their historical disenfranchisement. They clung to manners of speech and dress that were distinct from the (predominantly white) mainstream and that fostered a disregard, even a disdain, for assimilation.Dr. Ogbu’s theories rang true at times in my own life as I continued to struggle with the balancing act: Would I slack off or go to the library in the evenings to pre-read for the next physiology lecture and risk being caught “acting white”? (It was Dr. Ogbu who popularized the phrase in the mid-1980s, to explain why black students might spurn behaviors associated with achievement.) How much would I have to lower the grades I reported to my friends when they would pry, to fit their preconceptions?Both my grades and my identity were slipping.But toward the end of my undergraduate years, I found myself spending time with other first-generation Canadians from Africa. Like me, many of them understood that agency and dedication would propel them farther than foreign names and pigmentation would pull them back. The doors that advanced education promised to open were a primary reason our parents emigrated to North America. My new friends and I were not trying to conform to what peers, strangers or society believed a black male should be.I attended medical school in St. John’s, Newfoundland and Labrador. Commonly, minority physicians-in-training report tremendous support from their communities. In his memoir, “Black Man in a White Coat,” the African-American psychiatrist Dr. Damon Tweedy describes receiving positive and encouraging reactions when medical staff members saw the “young brother” sporting a white coat during his medical training at Duke in the late 1990s.This would be the case for me as well.Unfortunately, it is not always the case for others, who have the ability to succeed but succumb to social pressure. Minorities with aspirations of upward mobility have considerable barriers holding them back. Systemic factors like differential access to high-quality child care, lower socio-economic status overall and poorly funded schools account for much of the educational achievement gap between black students and the general population. Peer pressure should not be one of them.Every step I took, from undergraduate training to medical school to competitive postgraduate training programs, yielded fewer and fewer colleagues of my complexion — a pattern documented in a recent article by Dr. Amit G. Pandya and other members of the American Academy of Dermatology diversity task force. It is for this reason that the academy runs a mentorship program that engages medical students of color in the hope of creating an ethnically diverse cohort of dermatologists.The University of Toronto’s Community of Support initiative recognizes the importance of a health care community that reflects the diversity of the Canadian population, with black and indigenous students a priority. Through its mentoring program I work with black students who aspire to become physicians. Many of them tell me that interacting with a physician who looks like them encourages them to continue their own journeys.I tell them what my immigrant parents told me: to surpass expectations placed upon them by institutions, friends and themselves. Because achievement has no color.
Just as fashion blogging was beginning to take off in 2007, so too was a more plain-speaking online community — one that gave rise to some of today’s most recognizable fashion voices and figures.Created on Sept. 29, 2007, by a user called lolmodelbitch, Fashin Fags was a style-focused offshoot of the popular celebrity gossip blog Oh No They Didn’t, on the LiveJournal platform. It was where anonymous users could scrawl graffiti on fashion’s bathroom wall, posting hilariously catty comments about a model’s career or the latest Prada collection.Though its glory days spanned only four years, the community played witness to the creation of the blogger Bryanboy, Hari Nef’s transition from super-user to model and actress, and Jeffree Star’s pivot from singing to cosmetics. It paved the way for the fast fashion news cycle, creating an appetite for trade sites like Business of Fashion (which started as a blog) and the instant catwalk images of Nowfashion. For better or for worse, it was instrumental in the democratization of fashion as we know it.It was also full of “the meanest, but funniest, people I’ve ever met,” the former model and member Marc Sebastian Faiella, 26, said. “Everyone was so unabashedly mean, but they would do it in such a funny way.” Those comments, whether or not they were about him, he said, “were just so funny that you couldn’t really be mad at anyone.”The blog’s name changed to Fashin sometime in 2009. “People realized the name was maybe a little offensive,” said Kevin Tu, 28, who took on moderating duties after lolmodelbitch granted him privileges before she disappeared without a trace.“The attitude on the community was that people were speaking their minds, not really being afraid. A lot of it did have to do with the fact that the creator was essentially an anonymous troll.”One former member, Dana Kruspe, recalls that “it wasn’t all catty and horrible.”“I learned a lot there,” Ms. Kruspe continued. “The content I was creating for it was just fueled by the people who I knew would enjoy it.”At its peak, this LiveJournal community became a platform for erudite, acid-tongued fashion fans to school each other on modeling’s fresh new faces, advertising campaigns and histories of the biggest brands. Adding to that conversation could be a formative education. Before publishing a comment, users had to be sure their knowledge of the topic was up to scratch, or face a grand jury of fashion experts.Ms. Kruspe often created in-depth posts on the percentage of nonwhite cover stars on any issue of any edition of Vogue (18 percent in 2010), and an examination of how often a publication would photograph an item of clothing from a certain brand. (By her count, Balmain’s heavily borrowed FW 2010 gold dress appeared on eight fashion covers internationally.)“People used to make tallies of which models would walk what show,” Mr. Faiella said. “They used to make tallies of what soundtracks were on which runways, which shows. There used to be blogs where someone would upload pictures before there was anything like Nowfashion. I learned so much from that blog.”A lot of Fashin’s former members went on to be employed by the industry. Mr. Tu, previously at Models.com, now works at the Society management, a talent agency that handles the careers of Kendall Jenner, Adriana Lima and Lottie Moss. Mr. Faiella left modeling for a career in television. David Siwicki, another former member, now does public relations for the of-the-moment brand Vetements. Hari Nef appears on the television show “Transparent,” and was most recently featured in a L’Oréal campaign.Fashin is still online, although Ms. Kruspe remembers its most active years being 2008 to 2011. Where posts would once amass nearly 100 comments, now they’re lucky to receive any. Still, for a brief period at its height, Fashin was a stiletto-in-mouth dysfunctional family where opinion was king.“There isn’t a place to care about fashion as much as we used to,” Mr. Faiella said. It was really important, he said, that the blog “gave everyone a platform to talk about how they felt about fashion, what their feelings were and in what direction they thought fashion should head.”“Now,” he continued, “everyone has a platform, everyone has an Instagram, Twitter, a YouTube channel.”Mr. Tu agreed. “I don’t think I’d be here today if any of that never really happened,” he said. “It really did help people — in the same way it helped me — to find their way through the fashion industry.”
PHILADELPHIA — Applause and cheers broke out at the soon-to-open Museum of the American Revolution here on Friday when its centerpiece, a fragile, 10-foot-tall elliptical tent, was finally erected. The linen marquee was the office and living quarters for George Washington during much of the Revolutionary War — “the first Oval Office,” noted R. Scott Stephenson, the vice president of collections, exhibitions and programming at the museum, which will open on April 19, two blocks from Independence Hall.Conservators, engineers and museum officials had spent years working toward this moment, the realization of a dream that began in 1909 when an Episcopal minister, hoping to build a museum, bought the tent from a daughter of Robert E. Lee.Washington, as commander of the Continental Army, not only slept there. Between June 1778 and 1783 he remained inside “its venerable folds” for hours at a time, as his adopted son, George Washington Parke Custis, wrote in “Recollections and Private Memoirs of George Washington,” and he ordered that “he should on no account be disturbed, save on the arrival of an important express.” In this tent, Washington weathered the Battle of Monmouth, plotted the Siege of Yorktown, conferred frequently with Alexander Hamilton and changed the course of history.At the $120 million museum, designed by Robert A. M. Stern Architects, the tent will occupy a climate- and light-controlled space behind shatter-resistant glass. “Having any George Washington artifact is important and having one as tangible as this tent is quite extraordinary,” said David N. Redden, a former vice chairman of Sotheby’s, who in 2006 sold a Revolutionary War battle flag for $12.33 million, still a record price. He declined to value the tent, but added, “I can’t think of any other Revolutionary War tents that survive.”It’s lucky this one did. Washington ordered it when his first field tent began rotting during the brutal winter of 1777 at Valley Forge. Designed just like the first — with a scalloped valance, trimmed in scarlet, dropping from two peaks over the outer walls — this one passed by inheritance from Custis to his daughter, Mary Anna, who married Lee long before he became commander of the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia.It was seized by federal troops in 1862 and eventually sent into storage at the Smithsonian Institution. There it resided until 1901, when, after petitions by the Lee family, President McKinley returned it. In 1909, to raise money for Confederate widows, Mary Custis Lee sold it for $5,000 to the Rev. W. Herbert Burk, founder of the Valley Forge Historical Society, whose collection was given to the new museum in 2003.Readying it for display was complex, even for Virginia Whelan, a textile specialist who has conserved a cotton shawl worn by Gandhi and the coat Franklin D. Roosevelt wore at Yalta, among other artifacts. A one-square-yard piece was missing entirely, probably cut up at some point for souvenirs. The linen bore about 550 jagged holes, ranging in size from a thumbnail to a couple of playing cards. And it had stains. “I wondered if someone spilled their grog, or is it sweat?” Ms. Whelan said. “Or did it come from candlelight?”Wearing a thimble but no gloves, Ms. Whelan layered fine, nearly invisible netting over and under each hole, then used polyester thread finer than human hair to stitch around the damage to prevent further fraying. For large tears and the missing piece, she worked with the faculty of Philadelphia University’s textile design department to make high-resolution images of the fabric, which were printed on polyester with a digital inkjet printer.The whole effort took 525 hours of handwork by Ms. Whelan and an assistant.Erecting the fragile tent, which measures 20 feet by 15 feet, was equally challenging. The 18th-century system of poles and ropes would have put too much stress on it. Alex Stadel, a structural engineer from Keast & Hood, devised the custom base, which looks like two unfurled umbrellas, standing upright and connected by a ridgepole, adding some upright poles on tracks for additional flexibility.To attach the walls to the tent top, the team avoided iron hooks and eyes that were used in the original design, and chose rare-earth magnets that tether the fabric in place.Visitors can view the tent beginning on April 19, the 242nd anniversary of “the shot heard ’round the world” that set off the Revolution, when the museum opens in the heart of this historic city, just a short walk from Carpenters’ Hall, meeting place of the first Continental Congress.There they may also walk through 16,000 square feet of permanent exhibition galleries that tell the war’s story through immersive experiences, recreated historical moments — as when Washington broke up a fight among soldiers — and historical artifacts.Among the other treasures are a 13-star “Commander-in-Chief’s Standard” that marked Washington’s presence on the battlefield; the first newspaper printing of the Declaration of Independence; and guns, muskets, canteens and uniforms.Mr. Stephenson notes that this is not a war museum — and that the story does not end with American independence. The museum takes pains to include the roles played by women; slaves such as Washington’s valet, William Lee, who was freed in Washington’s will; Native Americans; and, later, immigrants in the tale, a story that continues to this day. “We are still in the midst of this revolution,” he said.
When President Trump signed a sweeping order shutting the borders to refugees and others from seven largely Muslim nations, the shock waves hit with particular force in those countries’ immigrant communities here.Here’s a look at some of the areas where immigrants from those seven countries are highly concentrated.The roots of the Syrian community here were woven from silk more than a century ago.The first Syrians arrived in the late 1800s, arriving first in Lower Manhattan and Brooklyn and then migrating to New Jersey, drawn by the silk mills in Paterson. Since then, they have established thriving communities in northern New Jersey, spreading from the supermarkets on Paterson’s Main Street to the doctors’ offices in Short Hills and more recently to the apartments in Elizabeth.“This is the welcoming street, it’s easy to spot,” said Albert Nouri, 62, one of the owners of the Nouri Brothers Shopping Center on Main Street in Paterson. His market has been there for 40 years, on a street with shops selling shawarma and sweets, bearing signs in English, Arabic and Turkish.He arrived in Paterson in 1976, trained as an engineer and part of a large family of seven brothers and one sister. Businessmen and doctors, especially in demand after the Vietnam War, left Damascus to be with other family already located near Paterson.The latest census figures from 2015 show 10,116 foreign-born Syrians living in the New York-New Jersey area, with the most in Brooklyn and in Passaic County, N.J. The older, largely professional immigrants are in contrast to the most recent refugees fleeing from smaller cities of Homs and Daraa, refugee officials say.Avigail Ziv, the International Rescue Committee’s executive director for New York and New Jersey, said that the newest Syrians were growing better connected to other Arab and Muslim groups there, and had been embraced by church and synagogue volunteers.“In the past year, that has grown and become rich and deep,” Ms. Ziv said. “We’ve seen such an outpouring of support for the Syrian families that have come in.”Liz Robbins_____Alaaeldin M. Ahmed’s grocery store in the nation’s capital is about a 10-minute drive from the White House, and it sometimes seems that he could not have picked a better spot to sell halal meats, rice and spices to Sudanese expatriates.“They love to be in capitals,” Mr. Ahmed, who came to the United States from Sudan in the early 1990s, said of his countrymen on Monday. “I don’t know exactly why.”Perhaps, Mr. Ahmed added with a chuckle, it is because the Washington area can feel “exactly like Khartoum.” (Khartoum is the capital of Sudan, which is covered by Mr. Trump’s order; South Sudan, which became independent in 2011, was not affected.)Washington and its suburbs have a larger Sudanese population than any other metro area in the United States, which has long drawn Sudanese seeking to escape their native country’s political strife. Still, census figures show a population of only 4,621 foreign-born Sudanese in Washington and its suburbs and exurbs. The population is dispersed with many living in suburbs like Alexandria, Va. But it is a close-knit community in times of crisis.“If somebody passes away in the Sudanese community, you’ll find hundreds of Sudanese going to the funeral,” said Ahmed M. Elhillali, a Sudanese lawyer who has practiced in Washington for more than 20 years.But Mr. Ahmed, whose grocery in the Adams Morgan neighborhood of Washington is a hub of Sudanese culture in the region, cautioned that the community’s social life was limited.“They work a lot, so they don’t have time,” he said. “They may see each other on the holy days. Nobody meets anyone on weekends or weekdays; they work seven days a week.”In the wake of Mr. Trump’s order, there were measures of disappointment and defensiveness, with different reactions across the generational divide. Younger Sudanese have joined protests. Some older people are searching for a way forward.“We’re not going to be angry because we know the rules and how this country is running, and this new president told people who elected him what he’s going to do,” said Mr. Ahmed, who, like many Sudanese immigrants, said he supported Mrs. Clinton over Mr. Trump.He added, “They just care about working hard because they came from a tough country and they came here for the American dream.”Alan Blinder and Isma’il Kushkush_____The nation’s biggest concentration of Iranians is in Southern California, clustered in Los Angeles. Some live in big, ostentatious mansions rising in Beverly Hills, a testament to the wealth of much of this community. But they also work and shop in modest stores along Westwood Boulevard in Brentwood, or in quiet enclaves in the San Fernando Valley.Many Iranians, like Kazem Alamdari, a retired college professor who lives in Porter Ranch, came after the fall of the Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi after the Islamic uprising of 1979. “I enjoy my life here,” Mr. Alamdari, 69, said on Monday. “A free society.”According to census data, there were 147,597 foreign-born Iranians in the Los Angeles-Long Beach area in 2015. Iranian community members say that the number is far higher, but that many Iranians resist reporting their whereabouts to the government.Whatever their numbers, their influence here stands out. Signs scribbled in Farsi can be spotted along Westwood Boulevard. Los Angeles has an all-Iranian radio station. And on Saturday mornings, Persian Jewish families crowd into Sinai Temple for festive bar and bat mitzvahs.President Trump lost California to Hillary Clinton by four million votes, and Mr. Alamdari said that most Iranians voted Democratic. That said, there is a strong Republican streak, particularly among Persian Jews. David Wolpe, the rabbi at Sinai Temple, came under fire in 2013 for conducting same-sex marriages. Mr. Wolpe said that many Iranians in his congregation supported Mr. Trump.Adam Nagourney_____Naima Ali, a Somali-American caseworker, folds up her hijab to look like a hat while driving with her young daughter. “I don’t want to be harassed,” she said.Residents of the Cedar-Riverside neighborhood here, at the center of a Somali-American diaspora, have long battled public mistrust as their youth have been targeted by the Shabab and then ISIS, insisting that the actions of a few do not represent many. There were 24,476 foreign-born Somalis in the Minneapolis metro area in 2015, according to census figures.The Somali-Americans here claimed a major victory this month when one of their own, Ilhan Omar, took office as a state representative, becoming the nation’s first Somali-American legislator. But the political landscape under President Trump has them feeling threatened anew, they say, bringing more than 1,000 people to a rally on Sunday led by Ms. Omar at the Brian Coyle Center to protest the president’s travel ban.“It’s been traumatizing,” said Amano Dube, director of the bustling community center, where discarded protest signs were stacked on Monday behind the front desk.Two 6-year-old girls — one in a pink hijab, the other in a purple hijab — laughed as they jumped rope side by side in the gym that housed the Trump protest. The community center provides a variety of programming, including tutoring, after-school care, diabetes workshops, college-prep training and a food pantry.“It’s like home,” said Ms. Ali, 31. Families are desperately seeking support under the new president, said Ms. Ali, whose cousin lives in Minnesota with two young children, now separated from her husband in Somalia. “Families are being ripped apart. It’s heartbreaking.”Christina Capecchi_____In El Cajon, a city about 15 miles east of downtown San Diego, local businesses offer an efficient overview of how the community has changed since becoming an Iraqi refugee hub. Liquor stores, markets and barber shops with Arabic letters have sprouted around the Starbucks, gun shops and car dealerships.In the San Diego area, there were 27,827 immigrants born in Iraq, according to census figures, which are among the highest concentrations in the country. Most are in the eastern part of the county, and the vast majority are Chaldean, a type of Christian. Many of them resettled in and around inland El Cajon, because San Diego’s high cost of living makes it difficult for them to live in pricier coastal neighborhoods.Many arrived during the Iraq War, and another wave came as ISIS persecuted Christians in Iraq.In November, part of the city, along with much of San Diego’s inland, rural and conservative East County, voted for Mr. Trump. A cluster in the center of El Cajon voted for Mrs. Clinton.Chaldeans were not among them. They tended to support Mr. Trump, said Noori Barka, a businessman who moved to San Diego from Iraq in the 1980s. Mr. Barka, a community leader who runs a Chaldean-language news outlet and heads a Chaldean-focused nongovernmental organization, said that Chaldeans felt neglected by President Barack Obama’s response to the humanitarian crisis caused by ISIS. They wished more refugee spots had been allotted to Christians, he said.Mr. Barka, who owns a biotechnology firm that employs 45 people, supports Mr. Trump’s temporary ban on refugees.“I think it’s a good idea to stop the program and look at it more carefully,” he said.The ban on visas, however, will hurt businesses, he said. He was supposed to meet with a distributor from the Middle East who will no longer be able to come.“I hope our president understands, because he’s a businessman, that we cannot stop doing business,” Mr. Barka said.Roxana Popescu_____In the Detroit area, there are 11,247 foreign-born Yemenis, one of the highest concentrations in the United States. Many are working-class, building cars at the nearby Ford Rouge complex or working as clerks at gas stations. Some are merchants who own convenience stores and cafes.It is unknown when Yemenis began arriving here, but it is believed to have been in the late 1880s. Some gained citizenship by fighting in World War I or II, then traveled to cities like Dearborn, Mich., to work in factories or set up shop.Anees Aljahmi, 38, co-owns a popular Yemeni eatery in Dearborn, Sheeba Restaurant. He is following the path of his father, a restaurateur who came to the United States from Yemen in 1976.Right now, he said, the community is “terrified.” They are commiserating in places like hookah cafes and the Yemen American Cultural Center. They are also flocking to his restaurant, picking at dishes like lamb haneeth and seltah, served in a traditional stone bowl.“They came here for a better life and to escape conditions in Yemen, which have never been worse,” Mr. Aljahmi said. “Now, they’re worried about being able to go over there and visit their families, because if they leave, they don’t know if they can get back.”A close friend, he said, is very upset about having to cancel his plane ticket.“And families in Yemen have kids here, and suddenly they can’t come,” Mr. Aljahmi added. “And we cannot send for them. We don’t know if we’ll ever see them.”Many Yemeni business owners voted for Mr. Trump, he said. Now, they feel betrayed.“I support my president and my country,” he said, “but I don’t agree with what he did.”Mary Chapman_____The first waves of immigrants from Libya came here in the early 1970s, after the rise of Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the 27-year-old junior military officer who took power in a bloodless coup in 1969. Their numbers have grown, largely because of political uncertainty and instability at home, but there is no dominant center for the relatively small diaspora.Many of these first immigrants were pursuing advanced degrees, said Aiman Tarsin, a member of the board of directors of the Libyan American Organization. But as Qaddafi’s grip tightened, Mr. Tarsin said, “student visas, for many Libyans, turned into political asylum visas.”He said that over the decades, as the human rights situation in the country deteriorated, more Libyans began to flee.From 2008 to 2012, according to a census report, there were about 9,000 people living in the United States who were born in Libya. But the Arab Spring, which swept into Libya in 2011 and ended in the killing of Qaddafi by his own countrymen, sent the country spiraling into civil war and significantly increased the number of people leaving for the United States. Mr. Tarsin added that the largest populations lived in the greater metropolitan areas of Los Angeles and Washington.Jonah Bromwich
WASHINGTON — The White House on Monday warned State Department officials that they should leave their jobs if they did not agree with President Trump’s agenda, an extraordinary effort to stamp out a wave of internal dissent against Mr. Trump’s temporary ban on entry visas for people from seven predominantly Muslim countries.Career officials at the State Department are circulating a so-called dissent cable, which says that Mr. Trump’s executive order closing the nation’s doors to more than 200 million people to weed out a handful of would-be terrorists would not make the nation safer and might instead deepen the threat.“These career bureaucrats have a problem with it?” Sean Spicer, the White House press secretary, told reporters. “They should either get with the program or they can go.”Asked if he was suggesting that people resign, Mr. Spicer said, “If somebody has a problem with that agenda, that does call into question whether or not they should continue in that post.”Mr. Spicer defended the visa ban, saying its effects had been grossly exaggerated and that it symbolized Mr. Trump’s overriding goal of protecting the safety of the nation. He displayed little patience for the “dissent channel,” which the State Department has long maintained as a way for its staff to register objections over administration policies.It was the starkest confrontation yet between the new president, who is moving swiftly to upend years of government policies, and an entrenched bureaucracy, parts of which are openly hostile to Mr. Trump’s proposals or have struggled to enforce his executive orders, which have been announced with little warning and no input from the rank and file.Mr. Trump’s visa ban has reverberated through multiple agencies: the Defense Department, which says it hurts the military’s partners in conflict zones like Iraq; the Department of Homeland Security, whose border control agents are struggling to enforce the directive; and the Justice Department, whose lawyers are charged with defending its legality.But Mr. Spicer’s blunt warning posed a particularly difficult choice to the more than 100 State Department officials who signaled they would sign the memo. They can sign a final version, which would be put on the desk of Rex W. Tillerson, Mr. Trump’s designated secretary of state, on his first day in office. Or they can choose not to identify themselves, and instead rely on the leak of the letter to make their point.Under State Department rules and whistle-blower laws, it is forbidden to retaliate against any employee who follows the procedures and submits a dissent memorandum. One of the signatories, in a text message, said State Department signatories were trying to figure out what to do.The memorandum began to take shape late last week, as word of Mr. Trump’s executive order leaked out. The sponsors quickly gathered more than 100 signatures, an unusually large number, but a draft of the memo was still being refined over the weekend.Last summer, 51 State Department officials signed one protesting President Barack Obama’s policy in Syria, which they asserted had been “overwhelmed” by the violence there. They handed the cable to Secretary of State John Kerry.The State Department confirmed the existence of the memo on Monday, and it affirmed the right of its staff to dissent.“This is an important process that the acting secretary, and the department as a whole, respect and value,” said a spokesman, Mark Toner.The speed with which the memo was assembled and the number of signers underscore the degree to which the State Department has become the center of the resistance to Mr. Trump’s order. More broadly, it represents objections to his efforts to cut back on American participation in international organizations and to issue ultimatums to allies.Not surprisingly, the diplomats and Civil Service officers of the State Department are among the most internationally minded in the government; they have lived around the world and devoted their careers to building alliances and promoting American values abroad.That was reflected in parts of the draft of the dissent memo circulating in the State Department. It warned that the executive order “will increase anti-American sentiment,” and that “instead of building bridges to these societies,” it would “send the message that we consider all nationals of these countries to be an unacceptable security risk.”Among those whose views will be changed are “current and future leaders in these societies — including those for whom this may be a tipping point towards radicalization.” It also warned of an immediate humanitarian effect on those who come “to seek medical treatment for a child with a rare heart condition, to attend a parent’s funeral.”“We do not need to alienate entire societies to stay safe,” the memo concludes.Overseas, Iraqi officials said they were surprised by the directive, which they learned about through the American news media; they had not been consulted first. Objections from Baghdad are notable because Iraq is a front-line partner in the campaign against the Islamic State.And at the Pentagon, senior officials plan to send the White House a list of Iraqi citizens who have served with American forces with the recommendation that they be exempt. Officials said that the Iraqis who will be put on the Defense Department list have undergone a stringent form of vetting because they have served with the United States military in combat.
Donald J. Trump spent his first week in office repeating the lie that between three million and five million people had voted illegally in the November election, first to members of Congress, then on Twitter, then in an ABC News interview, then again on Twitter on Friday, citing an unsubstantiated claim popular in conspiracy circles.On Wednesday, Mr. Trump had announced in a pair of tweets that he would be asking for a “major investigation” into voter fraud, “including those registered to vote in two states.”Since then, a variety of news organizations have found that several members of Mr. Trump’s inner circle were registered in more than one state during the election. Several still are. There is no evidence that any of them voted twice.• Steve Bannon, Mr. Trump’s strategist, was registered to vote in Florida and New York, the Sarasota Herald-Tribune found.• Tiffany Trump, Mr. Trump’s youngest daughter, was registered in Pennsylvania and New York, NBC News reported.• Sean Spicer, his press secretary, was registered in both Virginia and Rhode Island, according to The Washington Post.• Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and close adviser, was registered in New York and New Jersey, according to The Washington Post.• Steven Mnuchin, who is nominated to lead the Treasury Department, was registered in New York and California, CNN found.Not really.Have you ever moved to a new state? And did you call up the people in charge of voting in your old state to tell them to go ahead and take you off their list? Probably not. Neither, apparently, did some members of the Trump family and his White House.“There is nothing illegal about that,” Fred Voigt, the deputy election commissioner for Philadelphia, told Heat Street, the News Corp.-owned conservative and libertarian site, which reported Ms. Trump’s double registration. “The illegality only occurs if one votes in two places, not if you’re registered in both.”State authorities regularly purge their voter rolls of people who move or die.Mr. Bannon’s case is a little different. A Guardian report last summer found that Mr. Bannon was registered at a vacant home he had previously rented for his ex-wife, but that he had never lived there himself.Shortly after that report, the Guardian said, Mr. Bannon changed his registered address to the home of a Breitbart writer, also in Florida.When he voted in November’s election, he did so by absentee ballot in New York, a spokesman for the state Board of Elections confirmed. On Wednesday, after widespread news reports of his double registration, Sarasota County removed Mr. Bannon from the rolls, The Herald Tribune reported.As the reports of double registrations grew, Kellyanne Conway, one of Mr. Trump’s senior advisers, appeared on NBC’s “Today” show on Thursday and denied that members of Mr. Trump’s inner circle were registered in more than one place.“I talked last night to Tiffany Trump, and she said it is flatly false that she is registered in two states,” she said. But NBC had confirmed that Ms. Trump, in fact, was.
DAKAR, Senegal — In the end, democracy prevailed.When Gambia’s president refused to give up power, neighboring countries rallied troops and invaded this month, threatening to oust him by force.The tactic worked, and Yahya Jammeh, the repressive ruler who had lost a presidential election in December,  stepped down and left the country, relinquishing power after holding it tightly for more than 22 years.It was nothing short of a democratic coup. So was it an exception, or proof that African leaders are increasingly willing to demand — and enforce — democracy in the region?Democracy’s record throughout the African continent has been checkered in recent years. While many West African nations, including Burkina Faso and Ivory Coast, have recently celebrated their first peaceful elections or transitions of power in decades, some have experienced violence and fraud at election time. In other countries, leaders appear poised to hold on to power until death, with little threat of intervention from neighboring countries.Last month in Ghana, an opposition candidate upset the incumbent in peaceful fashion in an election celebrated by observers for its fairness. In a milestone for the continent, Nigeria, Africa’s biggest economy and most populous nation, handed over power to an opposition candidate last year for the first time since democracy was restored in 1999.But there have been notable setbacks to democracy, too. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, President Joseph Kabila is still in office even though his term expired last month. An election has been delayed several times and may not happen until 2018. Yet nations in the region have not deployed troops to remove him.In Gabon last year, violence broke out after President Ali Bongo Ondimba was re-elected amid widespread denunciations of manipulation of the vote. In the Republic of Congo, President Denis Sassou-Nguesso’s re-election came with accusations that he launched airstrikes on opposition strongholds. Last year, Uganda’s president, in power for more than 30 years, was re-elected in a vote marred by irregularities.In Gambia, the outcome of December’s presidential vote, while a surprise, was considered legitimate by the global community. Even Mr. Jammeh initially agreed, phoning his opponent to graciously concede. But it was a regional banding together against Mr. Jammeh that made all the difference once he made it clear a few days later that he had changed his mind and was refusing to go.African leaders took such a strong line in Gambia’s case for one chief reason: Mr. Jammeh was an easy target to align against. With a long record of human rights abuses and bizarre, repressive behavior, he had increasingly distanced himself from regional and Western governments. He had jailed journalists and opponents, some of whom were tortured or died in prison, and had been widely disliked for years. Numerous governments had denounced Mr. Jammeh’s administration long before he declared that he would defend his presidency with his security forces.“He rubbed too many people the wrong way,” said Mohammed Ibn Chambas, the top representative to West Africa from the United Nations. “He didn’t have too many friends.”It didn’t take long for regional organizations to side with the winner of the election, Adama Barrow. The United Nations, the African Union and the Economic Community of West African States denounced Mr. Jammeh’s actions and called on the government of Gambia “to abide by its constitutional responsibilities and international obligations,” according to a joint statement from the groups. “It is fundamental that the verdict of the ballots should be respected.”The African Union announced that it would no longer recognize Mr. Jammeh as president as of Inauguration Day. And most important, the Economic Community of West African States — a group that despite its name has been increasingly active in peace and security matters — kept open a channel for a diplomatic solution, but simultaneously announced that it was preparing a regional military force to intervene if Mr. Jammeh did not step down.No one came to the defense of Gambia, a country with a shaky economy so small it barely registers on the global economic stage.“Gambia wasn’t strategic or interesting to anyone,” said Alex Vines, head of the Africa program for Chatham House, a research group. “So they were all united.”The coalition plan worked. Mr. Jammeh was allowed to keep negotiating with regional presidents who had flown in for face-to-face discussions. But at the same time, forces from the coalition entered Gambia. Three days after Mr. Barrow was inaugurated in a slapdash ceremony in the Gambian Embassy in Dakar, Senegal, Mr. Jammeh flew out of the country and into exile.While the show of force had clearly been planned in advance, the initial military foray across Gambian borders came about unintentionally, according to diplomats versed in activities in the region.Senegalese troops unfamiliar with the area somehow stepped into Gambia by mistake, they said. Word of their unintentional invasion quickly circulated, adding immediacy to Mr. Jammeh’s decision-making process. When he finally left the country, headed for Equatorial Guinea, Mr. Jammeh was allowed to take a small fleet of luxury cars with him.The region also had recent history to consider. The outcome of a 2011 standoff in Ivory Coast weighed heavily in the minds of negotiators of the Gambian situation, according to Mr. Chambas of the United Nations.In Ivory Coast, regional influencers initially sat on the sidelines as President Laurent Gbagbo holed up in the presidential palace and waged an armed fight to stay in power after losing an election. United Nations troops were called in to protect the election victor, Alassane Ouattara, who was trapped in a lagoon-side hotel.The situation dragged on for five months, and French and United Nations troops used force to install Mr. Ouattara. The standoff plunged the country back into a civil war that killed thousands.For such a tiny nation, Gambia and its presidential crisis attracted huge attention. For Americans, it offered some similarities. Like the election of Donald J. Trump, Gambia’s vote showed a populist candidate with a real estate background and no political experience riding a wave of frustration over economic inequality.Both candidates pulled off a surprise victory. And in both elections, voters sought to punish elites who many thought did not deliver during their administrations.The initial days of Mr. Trump’s administration have been punctuated by angry protesters spilling into the streets upset over the introduction of new policies. But for Mr. Barrow, the honeymoon phase of his presidency is in full swing. He flew into the airport in the nation’s capital over the weekend greeted by throngs of cheering supporters.
WASHINGTON — When President Trump signed his executive order on immigration policy, he said the move was to keep terrorists from entering the United States.In a later Twitter message on Sunday, Mr. Trump said: “Our country needs strong borders and extreme vetting, NOW. Look what is happening all over Europe and, indeed, the world — a horrible mess.”But the Department of Homeland Security already has several vetting systems that have stopped thousands of people from boarding planes before they could enter the United States.The agency has hundreds of agents stationed in dozens of countries around the world as the first line of defense to identify and address potential threats at the earliest point possible.Here’s a look at what is already in place.The preclearance program is run by the Customs and Border Protection agency. Customs officers are stationed at 16 airports around the world and screen passengers before they board planes to the United States. Customs officers based at foreign airports collect fingerprints and photos and check travel documents before allowing passengers to travel to the United States. The officers also conduct inspection interviews with passengers and monitor their behavior before they are allowed to fly.According to the Government Accountability Office, data from the agency show that it identified and stopped over 22,000 high-risk air travelers in the fiscal year 2015 through these predeparture programs. The customs officers at these locations determined that 10,648 of the approximately 16 million air travelers seeking admission to the United States through such locations were inadmissible. Many of those who were denied entry onto flights bound for the United States were stopped for national security reasons.Created in 2004, the Immigration Advisory Program is intended to prevent terrorists and high-risk passengers from boarding commercial aircraft to the United States. Unlike in the preclearance programs, customs officers in this program are unarmed, plainclothes officers who discreetly help airline and security employees with a review of passenger reservation and ticketing data on flights bound for the United States.These officers also assist foreign countries with document examination to check for fraud and provide training for airlines and foreign security personnel. The officers make nonbinding “no board” recommendations to air carriers and the host governments to prevent these passengers from boarding flights to the United States. Airlines typically adhere to the recommendations, even though they are not required to. These customs officers serve strictly as advisers in the foreign countries. They hold no law enforcement authority.The Immigration and Customs Enforcement arm of Homeland Security operates the Visa Security Program.Special agents with expertise in immigration law and counterterrorism are stationed at diplomatic posts around the world to help State Department officials prevent ineligible applicants from receiving visas. These agents research and investigate visa applicants, examine the documents submitted with the visa application, and conduct interviews with applicants.Over the last two years, visa security agents reviewed over two million visa applications, helping State Department officials refuse about 8,600 applicants, according to I.C.E. officials. Of these refusals, over 2,200 applicants a year had some known or suspected connection to terrorism or terrorist organizations, the agency said.Last year, the Obama administration announced changes to the visa-waiver program that would make it harder for travelers to enter the United States from Europe if they had dual citizenship from Iran, Iraq, Sudan or Syria, or had visited one of those countries in the last five years. The administration later added Libya, Somalia and Yemen.About 38 countries, mostly in Europe, participate in the visa-waiver program, which allows their citizens to visit the United States without a visa on trips of 90 days or less. Under the changes, visitors meeting the criteria would not be denied entry, but would have to go through the more rigorous visa applicant process.The changes were in response to legislation passed by Congress that requires countries to share more information about travelers and authorizes Homeland Security to terminate any country’s participation in the visa-waiver program if it does not share the security data. The legislation also strengthens efforts to detect and prevent passport fraud.The changes to the visa-waiver program came after the 2015 terrorist attacks in Paris that killed 130 people and injured 368. Because the attackers were all European citizens, some lawmakers and counterterrorism officials feared that terrorists could exploit the visa-waiver program and travel to the United States to carry out similar attacks.
Here is one way to measure the evolution of Mindaugas Kuzminskas, the 27-year-old Knicks rookie from Lithuania. Years ago, he was thrilled and a little nervous when he got to meet Arvydas Sabonis, a patriarch of Lithuanian basketball and someone whose towering size and handshake made the 6-foot-9 Kuzminskas feel almost small.Then, last summer, Kuzminskas had that same feeling again, but this time it was after he had arrived in New York, ready to sign a contract with the Knicks and finally begin his N.B.A. career.He walked into a room at Madison Square Garden, and there, to his surprise, sat Phil Jackson. These days, Jackson is the embattled president of the Knicks, with more critics than admirers. But to Kuzminskas, who grew up following the N.B.A. from afar, Jackson was the person who won a record 11 championships as an N.B.A. head coach.So Kuzminskas was sort of speechless. Or as he put it: “I forgot to speak English.’’Eventually, Kuzminskas remembered, and in a season with the predictable rookie ups and downs, he has nevertheless emerged as an intriguing addition to a team that can use help wherever it can find it.Kuzminskas’s skills, first developed in his native Lithuania and then refined in recent seasons in Spain, include a strong outside shot and general savviness on offense. His defense is a work in progress, but it’s not far fetched to think he is on his way to becoming a solid role player in the N.B.A. Maybe with the Knicks.He has come to symbolize an evolution of sorts in the makeup of the Knicks’ roster. The Knicks, though playing in the most international of American cities, were slower than some other N.B.A. teams in looking abroad for talent. In one notorious instance when they did, they selected 7-foot Frédéric Weis in the first round of the 1999 draft — only to have the overmatched Frenchman never play a second for the team.In 2008, the Knicks brought in Mike D’Antoni, a West Virginian who had made his mark professionally in Italy, to be the team’s new head coach. Shortly afterward, the Knicks, in the first round of the draft, took 6-11 Danilo Gallinari, a 19-year-old from Italy who was playing in Milan.But the D’Antoni-Gallinari combination didn’t last long. Gallinari was traded away in 2011 as part of the deal that brought Carmelo Anthony to the Knicks from Denver. And D’Antoni was gone a year later, departing because of his conflicts with Anthony.Now, Anthony is again in a standoff, this time with Jackson, who appears on intent on trading him. But regardless of how that plays out — whether it is Anthony who leaves, or maybe Jackson (or maybe neither) — one thing is different this time around: The Knicks have acquired a European accent that is likely to last for a while.In addition to Kuzminskas, the Knicks have Kristaps Porzingis, the 7-3 Latvian, who in his second season seems certain to become an N.B.A. star, and Willy Hernangomez, the 6-11 rookie from Spain, who has been asserting himself as a presence in the middle.Anthony or no Anthony, Porzingis and Hernangomez seem destined to play a lot of minutes together in the Knicks’ frontcourt, and Kuzminskas, often enough, could be alongside them.In other words, the Knicks, at least in part, could become the EuroKnicks. And why not? Nothing else has worked.This all comes as more than 100 international players, hailing from 41 countries and territories, were listed on N.B.A. rosters at the start of this season, according to the players association. The Utah Jazz had a league-most seven foreign-born players, while several teams had six. Meanwhile, the Knicks have five foreign-born players in all, with the other two being Maurice Ndour of France and the veteran Sasha Vujacic of Slovenia, although both have very limited roles.Before this season, the Knicks counted about three dozen foreign-born players in their history, although some, like Patrick Ewing, Dan Gadzuric and Ernie Grunfeld, went to high school and college in the United States.This surge on their roster — the Knicks had five foreign-born players last season, too, but except for Porzingis, they were of less consequence — more closely aligns them with the league trend. Their front office did not make anyone available to talk about the European contingent, but Clarence Gaines Jr., the Knicks’ vice president of player personnel and a longtime adviser to Jackson, is credited with pushing for Porzingis as the Knicks wrestled over whom to take with the No. 4 pick in the 2015 draft.In taking a close look at Porzingis, the Knicks also became aware of Hernangomez, since they were teammates on the same Sevilla club. So Hernangomez ended up a Knick, too.Fran Fraschilla, ESPN’s international basketball analyst, said he agreed with the notion that the Knicks, in the past, were not as interested as other teams in international players.“But now, given the fact that almost a quarter of the league is made up of players from outside the United States, you don’t want to be behind the curve anymore,” Fraschilla said. And the Knicks — whatever other problems they have at the moment — no longer are.Kuzminskas was plucked out of Spain’s top league, where he had played for three years. His trip to the N.B.A. was far slower than that of Porzingis, who made his N.B.A. debut at age 20, and Hernangomez, who made his at 22.But Kuzminskas rebuffed several offers to come to the N.B.A. on nonguaranteed contracts that offered only training camp tryouts. Instead, he waited until last summer, when he received his first guaranteed deal, from the Knicks, worth $6 million over two years.If it took him a while to get to the N.B.A., it is clear that Kuzminskas was almost destined to play basketball. While his father, Vladas, was a national table-tennis champion, his mother, Zita, had been a top-level player on the hardwood. His older brother, Saulius, played professionally in Europe.“It was already in my blood,” Kuzminskas said.Zita Kuzminskas was born in Siberia in 1955 after her parents had been deported there from Lithuania, then part of the Soviet Union. Her family returned to Lithuania when she was 4, and she went on to play professionally there as well as for the Lithuanian national team.And at 61, she still plays in senior tournaments. Her reputation, as a hard-nosed rebounder and defender, has been in the background of her son’s career. Three years ago, Kuzminskas said, he earned a reminder from his coach with the Lithuanian national team after flubbing a play.‘‘If you were as tough as your mother,’’ Kuzminskas remembered the coach admonishing him, “you would be one of the best players.’’“My mother, she was a big fighter, a good rebounder, a great defender,’’ Kuzminskas said.Kuzminskas was a late-blooming player. As a teenager, when many of his peers were starting to show up on N.B.A. radars, Kuzminskas was on the second team at his own school.He looked for other careers that would keep him close to basketball. At 15, Kuzminskas turned to journalism, interviewing his brother’s teammates for stories. At 16, he earned a referee’s license and worked games in his hometown, from high school to adult leagues.He is the 11th Lithuanian to make it to the N.B.A. It is an impressive feat for a country of roughly three million people. But in Lithuania, basketball is close to a religion.“It’s like high school basketball in Indiana,” Fraschilla said. “Basketball is a way of life there. For him to be in the N.B.A. is absolutely huge for Lithuania.”“It’s the No. 1 one sport by a mile,” said Arturas Karnisovas, a longtime Lithuanian star in Europe and now the assistant general manager of the Denver Nuggets. “We kind of joke around that we took Naismith’s book of basketball and made it our bible.”Lithuania now has four players in the N.B.A., an achievement that isn’t lost on Karnisovas. The basketball community in Lithuania is small and tight-knit. Karnisovas’s parents know Kuzminskas’s. Kuzminskas is good friends with Domantas Sabonis, who is Arvydas’s son and an Oklahoma Thunder rookie.And there is this: Twenty-seven years after Sarunas Marciulionis made his debut with the Golden State Warriors as the first Lithuanian player in the N.B.A., Kuzminskas became the first member of the Sarunas Marciulionis Basketball Academy to follow him there.“If he gets to be a rotation player someday, they will have hit the lottery,” Fraschilla said of Kuzminskas and the Knicks. And, he noted, “without much of a financial investment.’’Back in Lithuania, Kuzminskas’s parents watch every game, working out a harried routine to bridge the time difference.It starts with his father waking up at 2 in the morning. When his son enters the game, he runs over to wake up Zita, who works as a teacher. When Kuzminskas goes back to the bench, Zita goes back to sleep again until the next substitution.“My mother is saying, ‘I still cannot believe I am watching the game and you’re running in front together with all of the guys,’” Kuzminskas said.Perhaps even more unbelievable would be a Knicks team that is really good again. That would seem to be off in the distance somewhere, but perhaps the EuroKnicks — Porzingis, Hernangomez and Kuzmiskas — will help make it happen. Remember: Nothing else has worked.
I grew up on the grounds of a New Hampshire prep school where both my parents taught. It was my whole universe. I ate every dinner in the school cafeteria. I knew the secret passages, the hidden theater tucked behind the basketball gym backboards, the gap in the hockey rink eaves you could slip through to marvel at the Zamboni. This was the 1980s.My childhood had been defined by health problems, starting with a life-threatening brush with epiglottitis that required an emergency tracheotomy and intubation. Doctors would laugh with wonder when they’d pull out my hospital file, thicker than a phone book. I had severe asthma, allergies and pronounced nearsightedness that wasn’t discovered until grade school. Perched on the playground at my rough-and-tumble rural elementary school — with my trach scar and Coke-bottle glasses and messed-up teeth, Ventolin inhaler in my pocket — I felt like the chicken with blood on it, the one that the other chickens instinctively want to peck to death.But I was creative, and I was good with words. By the time it was my turn to attend the prep school, I had become simultaneously insecure and pretentious. I loved to write, but I didn’t know what I wanted to say. I loved music, but I didn’t know what I wanted to hear.One day I was shuffling around the student center brandishing a copy of Dylan Thomas’s “Collected Poems.” I’d swiped it from my father’s bookshelf because it had looked appropriately grandiose. A passing teacher mentioned to me that a Mr. Harrold, who taught math and philosophy, also liked Dylan Thomas and that I should go talk with him.Simon Harrold was a tweedy Englishman in his mid-40s, with a neat, white beard and thinning, sweptback hair, longer in the back. He’d arrived at Kimball Union Academy in 1989 under strange circumstances: There was a woman teaching at the school; he showed up and was said to be her husband. She disappeared, and he stayed on. Along with teaching, he directed Shakespeare in the spring, and every year he would perform at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, doing plays by A. R. Gurney and Samuel Beckett. His flamboyantly British presence on campus reminded me that there was a larger world outside of our tiny 400-person town, and he had a self-possession that I envied.I showed Mr. Harrold my collected Dylan Thomas, and he mentioned that he had another book I might like. I followed him to his house, claustrophobic with antique furniture, an entire wall taken up by a floor-to-ceiling bookshelf. He ran his finger along the spines and selected a copy of Thomas’s “Under Milk Wood: A Play for Voices” and then went into another room and came back with a recording of Thomas’s radio play on cassette.“Under Milk Wood” narrated the story of a small town almost like the one I’d grown up in, full of beautiful eccentrics and furtive secrets and closed minds and the unspoken notion that the entire world is holy. I listened to the cassette about a dozen times, eventually putting it on as I’d fall asleep at night. It became like Scripture to me.I went back to Simon’s house to tell him how much I liked it. Maybe you’ll like this, he said, handing me a poetry chapbook along with another cassette. Brian Patten revealed himself to be just out of his teens, vicious and romantic. His voice on tape was sharp-edged and tinny and intensely British, trembling with what felt like a tremendous weight of repressed anger. After a few more books, Simon decided it was time for me to tackle “Ulysses.” He followed that with a copy of “Tristram Shandy” that I never returned.Before long, I was dashing off eccentrically mispunctuated, barely readable stream-of-consciousness monologues stocked with the biggest words I knew. I’d show these terrible pieces to Simon, and I somehow felt encouraged, though he never quite said he liked them.He was far more approving of a band I had formed. At one school “concert” in our auditorium, the teenage audience derisively laughed at my wordy, confrontational lyrics. I pulled out an accordion; “Fag machine!” a kid in the front row yelled. I spotted Simon standing in the back, listening with seriousness and leaving after I was done.I’d frequently go over to Simon’s house to talk. He’d pour me a pint of home-brewed beer — which seems inappropriate when I write it down, but which made me feel respected and trusted, like a peer. We’d chat warmly, though Simon’s accent and intellect always made him seem a bit remote. I spent most of the time talking around the fact that I had no idea what to do with my life. At one point, he stopped me. “I think that the next step, for you, is to call yourself an artist, and to understand that you are an artist,” he said. “Stop fussing about it and just decide to be an artist. Everything will follow from there.”As much as I was obsessed with writing and music, I thought actual artists lived far away from the practical world, in some realm I’d never escape to. Simon’s pronouncement had an almost magical effect on me. I slowly became braver in trying that word on, and my work got better.Shortly after I graduated, I learned Simon had lung cancer. I sent him a letter, along with a collection of poems I’d written, with a handprinted woodcut cover. And then, on a trip back to New Hampshire, I stopped by to see him.I’d expected a rattled and diminished man, but Simon was the same dapper, witty Englishman. He told me that the first thing he’d done after the diagnosis was to start smoking again, since he liked smoking and was going to die anyway. Next he bought the most outlandishly expensive chair he could find, to read in. Rolling a cigarette, he sat back in that overstuffed chair, which felt like it took up most of the living room, and told me: “It really is true: You get what you pay for. I intend to be carried out in it.”He described in great detail what it feels like having emphysema. He told me a hilarious story about a door-to-door salesman coming to his house and demonstrating a state-of-the-art vacuum; Simon regretfully told the salesman he wasn’t going to buy it because that was probably the last time his house would ever be vacuumed. We talked about books and about art again, and then I left. I knew I’d never see him again, but he was so calm he made that feel normal somehow.I had charged into college with a head full of European modernists only to discover that nothing could have been more out of fashion. Frustrated and constricted, I decided that I wanted to do something my peers would find disreputable, so I started a rock band again. I wanted to fuse the language and complexity of literature with the scrappy immediacy of rock ’n’ roll, and I wanted to bring to rock singing the hypnotic quality I’d heard in the cassettes Simon had assigned me. I named the band Okkervil River, after a short story by Tatyana Tolstaya.
William A. Norris, the federal judge who ruled in 1988 that the Constitution’s equal protection clause guaranteed that gay people could serve in the military — a decision that presaged the Supreme Court’s legalization of same-sex marriage — died on Jan. 21 in Los Angeles. He was 89.The cause was heart failure, his wife, Jane Jelenko, said.In the 1988 case, Judge Norris — sitting on the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, as part of a three-judge panel — issued a 60-page concurring opinion in the court’s 2-to-1 ruling striking down the Army’s ban on gay soldiers. It was the first time a federal appeals court prohibited a branch of the armed services from excluding people on the basis of sexual orientation.Judge Norris wrote that the Army’s ban would apply even to those who desired homosexual contact but engaged in no sexual act, while heterosexuals who engaged in homosexual acts while intoxicated might not come under the ban.“If a straight soldier and a gay soldier of the same sex engage in homosexual acts because they are drunk, immature or curious, the straight soldier may remain in the Army while the gay soldier is automatically terminated,” the decision said.“In short,” it concluded, “the regulations do not penalize soldiers for engaging in homosexual acts; they penalize soldiers who have engaged in homosexual acts only when the Army decides that those soldiers are actually gay.”The majority on the court said that the military rules violated the Fifth Amendment, which bars discrimination by the government without compelling justification.Calling the ban just as legally offensive as previous laws against interracial marriage, Judge Norris wrote: “Laws that limit the acceptable focus of one’s sexual desires to members of the opposite sex, like laws that limit one’s choice of spouse (or sexual partner) to members of the same race, cannot withstand constitutional scrutiny absent a compelling governmental justification.”A few months later, however, the full appellate court nullified the panel’s ruling. It voted, 7 to 4, to uphold the right of a former soldier, Sgt. Perry J. Watkins, to serve because the Army had repeatedly allowed him to re-enlist knowing that he was gay. But its narrow ruling skirted the constitutional question.Still, in a statement issued after Judge Norris’s death, the appeals court’s senior circuit judge, Raymond C. Fisher, called his opinion “visionary” because it was “vindicated” in 2015 when the United States Supreme Court affirmed same-sex marriage as a constitutional guarantee of “equal dignity in the eyes of the law.”Sergeant Watkins was not found to have engaged in any specific sexual acts, and the Army never argued that his job performance had been impaired, but its regulations were changed in 1981 to require that all gay people be discharged. Sergeant Watkins was discharged in 1984.Among Judge Norris’s more than 400 other opinions was a 1990 ruling overturning the singer Wayne Newton’s $5.2 million libel award against NBC. The case stemmed from Mr. Newton’s purchase of a Las Vegas casino. NBC News reported in 1980 that he had financial problems at the time and that he had testified falsely before the state’s gambling board.In finding for NBC, Judge Norris said the facts as NBC reported them were beyond dispute.“The media should not fear that its journalists’ professional judgments will be second-guessed by juries without benefit of careful independent review,” he wrote.William Albert Norris was born on Aug. 20, 1927, in Turtle Creek, Pa., near Pittsburgh, the son of English immigrants.His father, George, arrived on the ocean liner Lusitania on one of its last voyages before it was torpedoed by a German U-boat during World War I. He became the editor of The Turtle Creek Independent, a local newspaper. Judge Norris’s mother, the former Florence Clive, escaped what her son described as a Dickensian childhood in England and survived her trans-Atlantic voyage after its canny British captain hoisted an American flag as a German submarine approached.After a stint in the Navy, Judge Norris graduated from Princeton in 1951 with a bachelor’s degree and then from Stanford Law School. He clerked for the Supreme Court justice William O. Douglas.In addition to his wife, he is survived by four children, Barbara, Don, Kim and Alison Norris, all from an earlier marriage to Kitty Hagen; four stepchildren, David Jelenko, Jill Bauman, James Weister and Joni Martino; a sister, Dorothy Lankford; and two grandchildren.Judge Norris was at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles in 1968 when Senator Robert F. Kennedy was assassinated, and sought to calm the stunned crowd that had gathered to celebrate Kennedy’s victory in the California presidential primary. He served as president of the Los Angeles Police Commission under Mayor Tom Bradley and was founding president of the board of what became the Museum of Contemporary Art.He was nominated to the federal appeals court in 1980 by President Jimmy Carter and retired in 1997.
The director Mary Zimmerman sat down on the Metropolitan Opera’s stage during a recent rehearsal for her new production of Dvorak’s “Rusalka,” a Czech “Little Mermaid” about a water nymph who gives up her voice to become mortal and pursue a human prince. Ms. Zimmerman stretched out her legs in front of her, and for a few moments she just watched the action, looking like a child taking in a bedtime story.But if it were to lull you to sleep, the dreams “Rusalka” inspired might well be nightmares.“The story might be meant for children but contains some kind of psychological warning or truth in it, a dark warning,” Ms. Zimmerman said in an interview after the rehearsal. “True love should not require the loss of yourself and your voice.”Ms. Zimmerman, 56, had her most indelible success with her lyrical, alternately poignant and witty adaptation of Ovid’s “Metamorphoses,” which was set in a stage-sized pond and won her a Tony Award in 2002. She was one of a series of Tony-winning directors Peter Gelb lured to the Met when he became the company’s general manager in 2006; “Rusalka,” which opens Thursday, Feb. 2, follows her productions of the early 19th-century bel canto operas “Lucia di Lammermoor” (2007), “La Sonnambula” (2009) and “Armida” (2010).Those previous stagings were controversial, particularly the “Sonnambula,” which rather opaquely transferred the action to a contemporary loft where a company is rehearsing, yes, “La Sonnambula.” Ms. Zimmerman has been spoken of alongside fellow Gelb favorites Bartlett Sher and Robert Lepage — both of whom also have new work with the company this season — for being asked back time and again, even after their promising visions keep failing to make it onstage fully formed. (To be fair, this sense of letdown may be the overburdened Met’s fault as much as the directors’.)But for Ms. Zimmerman, the fourth time may be a charm. If she never quite found her footing in the rigid conventions of bel canto, there is more in common with her theater work in the later, dreamier, more epic “Rusalka.” Ms. Zimmerman’s concept for the opera, conducted by Mark Elder and starring Kristine Opolais, Brandon Jovanovich, Eric Owens and Jamie Barton, evokes both Romanticism and the receding flats of classical theater; the costume silhouettes evoke both the French 17th century and the Victorian era.“I feel I’m at the core of what I’m interested in and have been all my life,” Ms. Zimmerman said of the piece. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.This is really, so long after “Metamorphoses,” you going back in the water.I think if I had not had my fill of water, as it were, if I’d never done that, we might have started from a point of real water, because it’s so beautiful. But in repertory, it’s literally nearly impossible. So we started from the woods, the fairy tale woods, the hidden woods. If you read the instruction in the score, it does say “Woods and a meadow by a pond,” even if people tend to put the pond really front and center.Was it a work you had wanted to do?Peter [Gelb] suggested it for me. I was going to do “Pearl Fishers,” but sometimes finances are such that if there’s a good production around, it’s easier to just borrow one. [Penny Woolcock’s production of that Bizet opera came to the Met in 2015.] When he broke that news to me, he said, “But I’d like you to do ‘Rusalka’ instead.” I’d seen Renée [Fleming] sing it live in HD, and I was working with her on “Armida” when she was doing it here. So I knew it a little bit, and when he suggested it, I felt it was right for me. The thing that was heartbreaking was that it was in Czech. That was and remains the most intimidating thing about it, for a theater director especially. Where they’re saying this and that, but you don’t know the exact word.How do you view the piece? What’s your take on it?When I started studying it, I noticed this entire opera is at night, every single scene. In the middle of the night, you don’t know what time it is. Time is at a standstill, and it’s hard to give a sense to the audience that things are going somewhere. So I want to activate the story so it feels we’re moving through space and time. We wanted to amplify the sense of transformation and things actually happening, of the plot actually going somewhere.“Rusalka” is an opera that, in Europe at least, has been the focus of a lot of directorial intervention. Have you avoided that?I always want to lean toward the story that’s there. She is still a water spirit, and her father or uncle or spiritual father is still a water gnome. There are still those imaginary creatures, but with very real and serious problems. I’m not putting it in Paris, and she’s not a prostitute or anything like that, but it doesn’t ignore the sort of gender politics in it, which are really there.Your work at the Met, especially that “Sonnambula,” has been heatedly debated by audiences and critics like myself. Do you see this “Rusalka” as a way to prove yourself?I take each piece as it comes and respond to it as I do. I’m just doing my job as I see my job. I actually like “Sonnambula” the best. The second time we did it [in 2014], it was kind of loved. That’s not an uncommon switch in the world of opera. The idea of the traditional holds sway until there’s the new traditional, and the radical always feels outlier until through time it’s shaped into the traditional.The main difference between directing theater and directing opera is the opera audience and its knowledge of the text. That knowledge goes back to childhood, and it’s an oral knowledge, often from recordings, accompanied by an imagined virtual perfection, or that virtual perfection is a production they saw as children. And that’s wed to the music in the heart and mind. There’s a longing for how we first experienced it or how we experienced it virtually by listening to it — disembodied and therefore divine — and any materialization of it is, by definition, incorrect, at first.I don’t have disrespect for this. It’s part of the form, it’s part of the obsession. Part of the love is that love of the past and the old and the repeated.The constraints are so different than in theater.Mike Nichols came to see the open dress of “Armida” and said, “When do you open?” I was like, “In four days.” And he said, “Oh, so you still have time to make cuts.” And I had to tell him we can’t make any cuts.But there’s something great about the assignment of it: “This is the score, and you have to make the story work within that and bend to it.” To amplify the music, illustrate it in some way, to make it visible.You had success with an adaptation of Disney’s “The Jungle Book” in Chicago in 2013. What’s happened with that project?The movie was made. [Disney released a live-action “Jungle Book” film last April.] It was sort of known, but Disney’s divisions are very separate. And word came down that they were rebranding it through this new movie, and everything about the musical will stop. That’s fine with me, though I would have liked to continue it and make it better.And what about “Metamorphoses,” which still lingers in the minds of many theatergoers?I got to New York and got an email from one of the producers saying, “We think it’s time for a revival.” And I just don’t think so. The company [Lookingglass Theater Company of Chicago] revived it a few years ago, but we just did it at home. And we took it to Arena [Stage in Washington] because we’d never done it in the round. That was something new; that was a reason to do it.I like to make new things and keep making things. I don’t think it’s going to happen. I don’t want to. It belongs to the past in a way for me. It’s a treasured memory.So what is next for you?I’ve never done this, but next year I’m going to try to take a year off, not just from teaching [she is a professor at Northwestern University] but from directing. Because I’ve had three to seven openings a year every year since my late 20s. I’ve worked a lot since I was young.So I’ll be without the perpetual pressure of something I’m supposed to be doing and finishing and see if whatever is inside me wants to express itself in some different way. We’ll find out.
WASHINGTON — Unhappy with the lack of resistance that Carmelo Anthony and the Knicks were seeing on offense, Washington Wizards Coach Scott Brooks delivered a strong message to his team at halftime.“Our mind-set needed to be adjusted a little bit,” Brooks said.Their mind-set adjusted, the Wizards clamped down in the third quarter and rolled past the short-handed Knicks, 117-101, on Tuesday night to win their fifth in a row and move into a tie for first place in the Southeast Division.Bradley Beal scored 28 points as Washington won for the 11th time in 13 games. Markieff Morris scored 24 points, and John Wall had 15 to go along with 13 assists.Anthony finished with 26 points but had only 9 after halftime as the Wizards’ defense, suddenly their trademark, took hold. The loss capped a month in which the Knicks went 5-12.“Goodbye, January,” Anthony said. “I don’t think people understand how tough it is, but we’re not complaining about that, though. To have 17, 18 games and five sets of back-to backs — you got to find it every night.”The Wizards opened the third quarter on a 16-2 run as the Knicks committed turnovers and missed six consecutive shots to fall behind by 19 points.“I think we came out flat in that second half, and we didn’t seem to kind of get the energy and momentum back after they made their run and made their push,” said Anthony, who shot 10 of 17 from the field.The Knicks were without Derrick Rose, who missed his second game because of a sprained left ankle, and Kristaps Porzingis, who was a late scratch because of illness. Coach Jeff Hornacek did not mention the possibility that Porzingis would be out during his pregame meeting with reporters.At the Knicks’ morning shootaround, however, Hornacek did respond to published remarks by Derek Fisher, a former Knicks coach, that the Knicks had regressed under Hornacek.Fisher, who coached the Knicks for the 2014-15 season and part of the following season, lost a lot more than he won and is now a TV analyst for the Los Angeles Lakers. Hornacek said he thought Fisher was being publicly critical because he was trying to promote himself as a candidate for another coaching job.“That’s probably why he’s putting it out there,” Hornacek said.This was the first meeting between the Wizards and the Knicks since Sidney Lowe’s on-court distraction on Jan. 19. Courtney Lee had said he did not attempt a shot on the Knicks’ final possession in that game because he heard Lowe, a Wizards assistant, yelling nearby and believed it was a player who might block his shot. Wall stole the ball, and the Wizards held on to win, 113-110.Lowe was fined $5,000, and the Wizards $15,000. On Tuesday, Coach Scott Brooks defended Lowe’s actions.“He was on the court,” Brooks said. “I respect the N.B.A.’s decision, but anybody who knows me and knows Sidney that he was not doing it to distract their player.”Brooks said that Lowe was instructing Morris to stay on Anthony and take him off the 3-point line because the Wizards were up by 3.“Once we did that,” Brooks said, “he backed off before the Knick player got the ball.”
WASHINGTON — Female fighters were among the roughly 14 Qaeda militants killed in an American commando raid in central Yemen over the weekend, the Pentagon said on Monday, seeking to explain a number of reports that civilians died in the nearly hourlong firefight.A member of the Navy’s SEAL Team 6 was killed and three other commandos were wounded in the operation early Sunday, the first authorized by President Trump since he took office on Jan. 20. The Pentagon identified the commando who died as Chief Petty Officer William (Ryan) Owens, 36, of Peoria, Ill.After initially denying there were any civilian casualties, Pentagon officials backtracked somewhat on Sunday after reports from the Yemeni authorities begin trickling in and grisly photographs of bloody children purportedly killed in the attack appeared on social media sites affiliated with Al Qaeda’s branch in Yemen.Capt. Jeff Davis, a Defense Department spokesman, told reporters at the Pentagon on Monday that the military was “assessing” the claims that civilians were killed in the surprise dawn raid that targeted the compound of a suspected Qaeda leader in Yemen, Abdulrauf al Dhahab.Captain Davis then sought to explain the reports of women being killed in the raid.“There were a lot of female combatants who were part of this,” he said. “We saw during this operation as it was taking place that female fighters ran to pre-established positions as though they’d been trained to be ready and trained to be combatants.”Armed military surveillance drones hovered over the operation as it unfolded, allowing ground commanders to monitor the battle in real time, military officials said.“Take reports of female casualties with a grain of salt,” Captain Davis said. “Not all female casualties are civilian casualties. In many cases, and certainly in this one, females can be legitimate combatants.”Captain Davis said the mission itself yielded “valuable captured materials from the site that will help us gain a deep insight into the planning to help prevent terror attacks.” He did not provide details. In previous raids in Iraq, Syria and Somalia, commandos have recovered laptop computers, thumb drives and cellphones that yielded important information about militant leaders’ locations, activities and associates.Yemen’s foreign minister, Abdul Malik Al Mekhlafi, appeared to take issue with the American military’s account on Monday, condemning the Special Operations raid on his official Twitter feed: “The extrajudicial killings and killing civilians are condemned acts that support terrorism.”On Sunday, another Yemeni official said that at least eight women and seven children, ages 3 to 13, had been killed in the raid.Qaeda supporters said that a young daughter of Anwar al-Awlaki, the American-born cleric and top Qaeda leader in Yemen, who died in a drone strike in 2011, was among the dead, according to the SITE Intelligence Group, which monitors extremist communications. The group denied that any senior Qaeda leaders had been killed.“The Department of Defense should conduct a swift, thorough and transparent investigation — including documenting the identity of each person killed and whether they were civilians,” Federico Borello, executive director of the Center for Civilians in Conflict, an advocacy group. “Furthermore, they should make amends to the families of any civilians killed or injured in the raid.”Whether in Iraq, Afghanistan or now Yemen, American military officials often blame terrorist groups themselves for putting family members, including women and children, at risk by sheltering them in compounds or bunkers that are the targets of airstrikes or commando raids.Pentagon officials say they go to great lengths to prevent civilian casualties, abandoning some strikes altogether if the risk to civilians — “collateral damage” in military parlance — is too great. To assess that risk on fixed targets, like the compound struck in Yemen over the weekend, the military spends days, weeks or longer monitoring a potential target to understand its “pattern of life” — the comings and goings of any fighters and civilians at a particular place.
PARIS — They make an odd couple, Thom Browne and Rick Owens, with apparently little to link them beyond nationality. Yet as Americans showing in Paris, the two designers are united in joining a long line of their countrymen who have chosen to present groundbreaking work in a city that opens its arms to select immigrants, if not exactly to all.“Thom started showing here because he knew there was space in Paris for what he was doing,” Miki Higasa, a New York-based brand strategist who has been with Mr. Browne from the start, said before his men’s wear show last Sunday, held in an event center on the city’s desolate perimeter.Far from the historic heart of Paris, this section of the 19th Arrondissement often has the look of a metropolis unraveling. Syrian refugees panhandle by the roadsides near the Avenue de la Porte de la Villette, while encampments of homeless African men warm themselves over fires on a highway median. The choice of location for the Browne show sharpened a viewer’s sense of untenable contrasts: on one hand, a masterly demonstration of audacious skills by a designer obsessed with control and order, and on the other, a feeling that, just outside the Paris Event Center, the center barely holds.Against a set composed of 30 thick felt pattern pieces arranged in piles, like off-cuts from a Robert Morris sculpture, and lighted by 30 suspended fluorescent workroom lamps, Mr. Browne’s presentation was an extended essay on the deconstruction of his signature suit of gray herringbone wool.First, models in face-concealing helmets, wearing wool bodysuits studded with woolen “buttons,” shirts with cuffs flowing to the floor and boots that rendered their feet unpliable as hooves, crept around the perimeter, barely able to see or move. They were followed by men dressed in a series of sculptural pieces that blasted apart the suit and pieced it back together in two dimensions, like constructivist Colorforms. The result was an abstract, westernized version of battle dress worn by samurai.If you looked hard enough, it was possible to detect commercial elements in what was mostly a performance art piece (one perhaps in need of a dramaturge). Yet increasingly it is evident that Mr. Browne’s collections are pitched toward his posterity — the inevitable museum retrospective — and equally that his sculptural clothing is armor to protect the wearer from a hostile world.Mr. Owens, too, approaches fashion with a sculptor’s eye to build collections often mischaracterized as reflecting a dystopian vision. Nothing could be further from the truth. Like Mr. Browne, Mr. Owens is a designer fixated on fitness and anatomical control. Yet in his work, by contrast, the messy psyche concealed behind a perfected bodybuilder exterior has a way of erupting — exuberant, unruly, insistently alive.As always in a Rick Owens show, there was plenty to please retailers — here, a bunch of purposely mauled jackets and coats of patchwork leather and linen horizontally striped and worn over trousers of slipcover proportions and shoes with clodhopper soles and a protruding shelf at the heel. But that stuff was just a pretext for Mr. Owens to play with volumes, primarily in a series of draped and knotted down-filled garments extruded and bulging, torqued and billowing, battling or succumbing to gravity in ways that evoked Nancy Rubins sculptures, by way of Charles James.Unlikely pairings were threaded through the shows here, pinging off one another delightfully. There was Olivier Rousteing’s wacko collection for Balmain of rags so madly bejeweled and studded that they looked like something dreamed up by an amphetamine-addled pro wrestler on an Etsy binge. And there was the compendious and enjoyable coed collection presented by Carol Lim and Humberto Leon for Kenzo, inspired, the designers noted, by arctic surfers, a subculture few knew existed before Sunday night.There were the finely balanced collections presented by Haider Ackermann, making his debut at Berluti, and by Véronique Nichanian, a seasoned designer at Hermès. Each was deceptively easy, and each featured wardrobe elements for members of another subculture almost as exotic as that of the wet-suited kooks riding the frigid breaks off Iceland’s Troll Peninsula: the ultrarich.Who, one wonders, are the guys for whom Ms. Nichanian creates? The answer continues to stump this critic, and yet what remains clear is that lucky is the man who can afford her handsome shearling blouson jackets, high-waist trousers cut both wide and narrow, slouchy belted trenches and pullovers of sheepskin sheared to look like cable knit.Similarly blessed by karma is the Berluti customer who can indulge in one of the double-breasted suits with high-cuffed trousers that Mr. Ackerman sent onto a plywood runway in his first outing since taking over from Alessandro Sartori as creative director of a label that is the pet project of Antoine Arnault, son of Bernard Arnault, reportedly the richest man in France.Briefly, a delusion took hold of me during the Hermès show on Sunday as the Austrian model Serge Rigvava sauntered onto the runway clad in an immaculately cut six-button double-breasted suit of verdigris velvet. For a span of some seconds, I indulged the fantasy of taking up citizenship in this world of costly luxury consumer goods. Then I remembered my Verizon bill was past due, and the dream abruptly ended: visa revoked.
Q. I sometimes flip through and realize I have tons of tabs open in my Android tablet browser. Is there a way to close all of these at once instead of having to tap them off one by one?A. The procedure for closing all open Chrome browser tabs has changed over the years, but on most recent Android tablets, press down on the “x” on the end of any open tab. Leave your finger on the tab until the Close All Tabs option appears on screen and then select that option to shut down all of the open pages.Although Google’s instructions for closing all tabs in the iPad version of the Chrome browser entail manually tapping each one closed, the iPhone edition has a quicker solution. In Chrome on an iPhone (or an Android handset), go to the top of the browser window and tap the small square with the number in the middle, which indicates the number of open tabs. On the next screen, tap the menu button in the upper-right corner and choose Close All Tabs.Apple’s own Safari browser for iOS 10 lets you close all the open page tabs in the same way for the iPad or the iPhone (and iPod Touch). Just tap the Tabs icon — which looks like two overlapping squares; it lives at the top of the iPad screen, or in the bottom-right corner for the iPhone version. When the device displays thumbnail versions of all your open tabs, press and hold the Done button in the corner until you see a menu with the option to close all open tabs.Microsoft’s touch-screen browsers have a similar shortcut when you press and hold the “x” on an open tab. In both Microsoft Edge and Internet Explorer on a Windows 10 tablet, you should get a drop-down menu with the option to close the other tabs.
ORLANDO, Fla. — USA Football, the national governing body for amateur football, intends to introduce a drastically altered youth football game in response to declining participation and increasing public belief that the game is not safe for children to play.The organization has created a new format that brings the game closer to flag football and tries to avoid much of the violence in the current version. Among the rule changes: Each team will have six to nine players on the field, instead of 11; the field will be far smaller; kickoffs and punts will be eliminated; and players will start each play in a crouching position instead of in a three-point stance.“The issue is participation has dropped, and there’s concern among parents about when is the right age to start playing tackle, if at all,” said Mark Murphy, the president of the Green Bay Packers and a board member at USA Football.“There are, legitimately, concerns among parents about allowing their kids to play tackle football at a young age,” Mr. Murphy continued, “so they can look at this and say they’ll be more comfortable that it is a safer alternative.”Worries about the future of youth football are mounting as evidence of long-term cognitive dangers of playing the game grows.For years, the sport’s top officials have played down the science and insisted that tackle football could be played safely. Neurologists have found a degenerative brain disease, chronic traumatic encephalopathy, in an alarming number of former football players, and last year the N.F.L.’s top health and safety officer acknowledged for the first time the link between the disease and brain trauma sustained on the field.“This is the future of the game,” Scott Hallenbeck, the executive director of USA Football, said in an interview at the organization’s annual convention here last weekend. “All of this is all about how do we do a better job, and a smarter job around the development of athletes and coaches in the game of football.”USA Football has for years promoted a program called Heads Up Football to youth and high school coaches to combat safety concerns and declining participation. But research, endorsed by the organization, that showed Heads Up Football helped reduce concussions and other injuries proved to be misguided, a review by The New York Times found.The group has also promoted flag football, which has no tackling, with success. Participation in the game, which is typically played by younger athletes, grew 8.7 percent last year, Mr. Hallenbeck said.Even so, participation in tackle football by boys ages 6 to 12 has fallen by nearly 20 percent since 2009, though it rose 1.2 percent, to 1.23 million, in 2015, according to the Sports and Fitness Industry Association. Schools in several states — including in Maine, Missouri and New Jersey — have shut their tackle football programs because of safety concerns and a shortage of players.The participation declines in tackle football are worrisome not just to youth football organizations like Pop Warner, but to the N.F.L., which sees youth football as a way to develop future fans and pro players. The N.F.L. has given USA Football tens of millions of dollars to promote the youth game, and the league’s presence was felt at the convention, which was held just a few miles from where the Pro Bowl was played.USA Football began exploring new ways to play the game in 2015. Unlike sports like baseball — which has a progression of levels, from T-ball up, suited to each age group — football had few alternatives to the flag and tackle versions. The new format, called modified tackle, is a way to give nervous parents an alternative.The first modified tackle scrimmages were held in September with youth teams in Cleveland. Chuck Kyle, the football coach at St. Ignatius High School, who ran the scrimmages, said that though much more work was needed to determine if this version of the game was safer, the initial evidence was positive.“By bringing the field in, first of all, I think there’s better form tackling because less speed, less momentum, more one-on-one tackling,” Mr. Kyle said. “I didn’t see as many pileups, because there’s seven people” on a side, not 11.USA Football is hoping that a few teams and leagues in different parts of the country test the game more formally this year. A national rollout of the game is still several years away.Still, Mr. Hallenbeck made sure to introduce the concept of modified tackle to the more than 1,000 high school coaches and administrators assembled here. He said that youth football was at a “critical crossroads” and that the football community, which faces “adversity,” must work together to create a safer game with more alternatives for children and their parents.Other keynote speakers, including former N.F.L. coaches, players and team presidents, echoed Mr. Hallenbeck’s call to arms at the three-day event, saying the sport is under threat.“There are a lot of geniuses out there that are diminishing football right now,” said Jon Gruden, a former coach of the Oakland Raiders and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, who now works as an analyst for ESPN. “There are a lot of geniuses that are trying to damage the game, and ruin the game. Do you feel it? There are a lot of geniuses that want to eliminate all sports, including recess.”“Not on my watch, and clap your hands if you’re with me on that,” he added, to loud applause.Many attendees at the conference said they were receptive to the new format if it helped keep children participating and allayed parents’ concerns.“The games are getting a lot faster and kids are getting bigger, so they need to modify the game so parents feel it’s safe,” said Paul Macklin II, who helps run recreation programs in Norfolk, Va. “We have to come up with new ideas.”Medical experts and safe sports advocates were more skeptical. The brains of children grow at incredible rates, and repeated jarring blows to the head can stunt that growth, doctors say. While concussions are a concern, the larger danger to an athlete’s long-term cognitive health is the repeated sub-concussive blows like the ones that linemen absorb on nearly every play from scrimmage.Several studies have shown that college and professional players who began playing tackle football as young boys have a greater risk of developing memory and thinking problems later in life than athletes who took up the game after they turned 12. Starting to play tackle football as teenagers is more prudent, doctors say.“The earlier they started playing, the worse their brains fared later on,” said Dr. Robert Stern, the director of clinical research at the Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy Center at the Boston University School of Medicine.“To me, it makes sense we would want to do everything we can to reduce or eliminate purposeful hits to the brain,” Dr. Stern added. “But if the culprit is the repetitive hits to the brain, that’s the starting point for making changes.”Terry O’Neil, the founder of Practice Like Pros, a group that advocates reducing collisions in youth football, was more direct.“If there’s tackling, then it doesn’t matter if it’s seven on seven or one on one,” he said. “There’s going to be contact with the other players and the ground. With the science available now, we find it surprising anyone would be promoting youth tackle football in any format.”Developing modified tackle, he added, is a way for USA Football “to suggest that boys of this age are not able to play the game as it was designed.” The solution, he said, is for boys to play flag football through junior high school.Whatever the merits of modified tackle, the biggest obstacle may be hidebound football coaches and the parents who cling to the notion that football is football only if it is played on a 100-yard field by 22 children at a time.“We’d get a rebellion if we tried this because so many people don’t want to be told what to do,” said Jon Butler, the executive director of Pop Warner, the largest youth football organization in the country. Introducing modified tackle football “is going to be by trial and error.”
BOSTON — Yuliya Stepanova, the middle-distance runner who helped expose state-sponsored doping in Russia and set off a global scandal ahead of the 2016 Rio Olympics, returned to international competition on Saturday.Stepanova, a former member of Russia’s national track team now living in hiding in the United States with her husband, Vitaly Stepanov, and their 3-year-old son, ran the 800 meters at the Indoor Grand Prix in Boston. Although she was barred from competing in Rio, she received special permission from global track and field officials to compete Saturday as a neutral individual unaffiliated with any nation.She finished seventh, in 2 minutes 5.14 seconds, in a field that included the Olympians Lynsey Sharp of Britain and Habitam Alemu of Ethiopia.“My goal was not to fall too far behind,” Stepanova, 30, said after the race. She exchanged few words with her competitors as she changed her shoes. “Some athletes like what I did,” she said. “Some hate me.”Charlene Lipsey of the United States, the winner of the race, expressed support for Stepanova’s participation but also argued that athletes with a record of doping — a list that includes Stepanova — should not be allowed to compete professionally.The race was the first international 800-meter competition that Stepanova had officially finished since September 2015, months before all Russian track and field athletes were barred from global competition amid the nation’s mounting doping scandal. Those sanctions remain in effect.Over the summer, the International Olympic Committee denied Stepanova’s request to enter the Rio Games as a neutral athlete, refusing to exempt her from the ban in spite of the unanimous recommendation of track officials who commended the lengths to which she had gone as a whistle-blower.Together with her husband, Stepanov, a former employee of Russia’s national antidoping agency, Stepanova spoke out about how Russian athletes had systematically doped and evaded drug testing, as she herself did until she was punished for a violation in early 2013.Subsequent investigations and the testimony of Dr. Grigory Rodchenkov, Russia’s longtime national antidoping lab chief, who carried out the cover-ups, revealed that Russia was cheating on a dramatically wider scale than the couple had known.Late last year, an investigator for the World Anti-Doping Agency published evidence that Russia’s government-directed doping schemes had involved, or benefited, more than 1,000 athletes across 30 disciplines.In Russia, the couple have been condemned as traitors, and they expressed little confidence on Saturday in Russia’s efforts to reform its antidoping system. “In my view, it’s still a circus being run by a bunch of clowns,” Stepanov said.“Running things in Russia right now is the person who created the doping system, Mr. Mutko,” he added, referring to Vitaly Mutko, Russia’s former sports minister, whom President Vladimir V. Putin promoted to deputy prime minister last year.Mutko has repeatedly denied that state-sponsored doping takes place in Russia, but he also admitted that most Russian athletes and coaches saw performance-enhancing drugs as necessary to win.Stepanova, who competed in July at the European Athletics Championships in Amsterdam but was injured during her race and was later disqualified for a lane infringement, said that last year, she would have wanted to continue running for Russia if the nation had accepted her as a representative. She no longer feels that way, she said Saturday, expressing disappointment that Russia had remained defiant and had not changed its sporting culture.She was glad not to be competing for a nation, she said.“I don’t have the pressure to deliver medals to anyone,” she said in Russian, speaking through an interpreter. She added that she was not planning to seek citizenship in the United States or elsewhere.As part of cyberattacks on WADA last year, Stepanova’s private online athlete records — including her location — were stolen, prompting her family to relocate within the United States over the summer.She said that while she and her family remained concerned for their safety — she has received death threats — she felt more secure in the United States than she had in Europe.Since September, Stepanova has trained under Alexander Seeger, a coach in Germany with whom she communicates by email and Skype.Her goal, she said, is to shave five seconds off her time and finish her event in less than two minutes.“When I was training in Russia, everybody told me that was not possible without doping,” she said.She said she viewed the next three years, before the 2020 Tokyo Games, as her final chance to qualify for the Olympics.“What a lot of athletes are forgetting, or what athletes in Russia never learned, is that the whole Olympic movement isn’t about winning at any cost,” Stepanov said. “It’s about trying your best and respecting the competition. If you’re faster than them, good. If you’re not, it doesn’t make you a loser.”
LOS ANGELES — An acrid campaign by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals against the movie “A Dog’s Purpose” ended up having more bark than bite.The No. 1 movie in North American was again “Split” (Universal), which took in $26.4 million, for a two-week domestic total of about $78 million. But the feel-good family drama “A Dog’s Purpose,” which came under attack by PETA in recent weeks for what the animal rights group said was mistreatment of a German shepherd during filming, an accusation the filmmakers largely debunked, took in a solid $18.4 million, on par with results for other dog-themed movies over the years.Directed by Lasse Hallstrom and based on W. Bruce Cameron’s best-selling novel of the same name, “A Dog’s Purpose” (Universal) cost about $22 million to make.Theodore Melfi’s “Hidden Figures” (20th Century Fox) was third, riding three Oscar nominations, including one for best picture, to roughly $14 million in ticket sales, for a six-week total of $104 million, according to comScore, which compiles box office data.Other films cashing in on best picture attention included the India-set adoption drama “Lion” (Weinstein), which drew six Oscar nominations in total. In its tenth weekend in theaters, “Lion” collected $2.4 million, for a new total of about $20 million. “Manchester by the Sea” (Roadside Attractions), also nominated for six Academy Awards, has taken in about $42 million — crossover territory. And “La La Land” (Lionsgate), with 14 nominations, surged to about $106.5 million in ticket sales.Also of note: “Resident Evil: The Final Chapter” (Sony), which cost about $40 million to make, arrived to an estimated $13.9 million, a low for that wildly successful six-film series. But the movie has already taken in an additional $65 million overseas.
Warren E. Buffett isn’t exactly an unknown quantity.As America’s most famous investor and the possessor of what Forbes estimates is a $74 billion fortune, he has been the subject of endless scrutiny across print and film, most without his participation. But to Mr. Buffett, one of the appeals of agreeing to let the cameras into his life for “Becoming Warren Buffett,” an HBO documentary debuting on Monday, was to tell his story in a relatively new way.Nowhere are there in-depth discussions about balance sheets and cash flow, though there are flashy animations illustrating basic investing principles. Instead, the film focuses on how Warren Edward Buffett grew from the Nebraskan son of a congressman to become the Oracle of Omaha, the avuncular mascot of American capitalism who built Berkshire Hathaway into a $406 billion empire, and shows some of his warts along the way.“People watching it expecting to learn how to buy cheap stocks will be disappointed,” Mr. Buffett said with a chuckle during a telephone interview. “When I think about getting beyond a financial audience, this becomes really prominent.”The film, directed by Peter Kunhardt, is indisputably positive toward its subject, showcasing hallmarks of the Buffett legend like his regular chats with students, his poring through thick corporate financial statements and his almost daily visits to a McDonald’s drive-through.But the movie doesn’t shy away from portraying Mr. Buffett, now 86, as something of a remarkable human computer, gifted with numbers and less so with interpersonal relationships. He is the kind of man who straightforwardly says that he can’t remember the colors of his bedroom walls, and the kind of husband who when his wife had the flu and asked for a pot to keep by her bedside, instead fetched a colander.In the film, his daughter, Susie, says she learned how to talk in sound bites to a father more immersed with financial issues than his children’s. “You lose him to some giant thought he had in his head at the time,” she said.Mr. Buffett doesn’t quibble with what is onscreen. “It’s really an accurate portrayal,” he said. “I make no claim to perfection.”Susie Buffett, in a telephone interview, said she hoped the film captured Mr. Buffett in full. “I think people get so star-struck with the money and the fame, and they don’t know that he’s just a person,” she said.“Becoming Warren Buffett” isn’t the first work to look at the man as well as the investor. Mr. Buffett cooperated in the writing of “The Snowball,” an authorized biography by Alice Schroeder that the mogul is less than fond of these days. (Mr. Buffett says diplomatically that the book was good in many ways, but also had errors.)But the effect is different when the movie features dozens of old family photos and interviews with Mr. Buffett, his sisters and his children, and Bill and Melinda Gates. Mr. Buffett’s first wife and the mother of his children, Susan (who died in 2004), is featured so prominently as an influence and force in Mr. Buffett’s life that she’s virtually a co-star.Getting Mr. Buffett’s cooperation took some work, said Mr. Kunhardt, who had previously made documentaries about Gloria Steinem and Ted Kennedy. Mr. Kunhardt said that in the fall of 2014 he approached Mr. Buffett’s son Peter before writing “an old-fashioned letter” to Mr. Buffett, which Peter placed on his father’s desk.“I’m a non-finance guy, so I wanted to do a film about Warren the man and how Warren the man became Warren the super-successful investor,” Mr. Kunhardt said.A week later, Mr. Buffett — impressed by Mr. Kunhardt’s previous work — agreed to the first of four sit-down interviews. By 2015, Susie Buffett presented the filmmaker with a treasure vault for Buffettphiles: closets and cardboard boxes full of family photos, personal documents and home movies never seen publicly.Mr. Buffett remained closely engaged with the project. This month, as the movie neared completion, he caught a numerical error in one of its graphics, a missing handful of zeros in one particular datum.One notable omission in “Becoming Warren Buffett” is any interview with Astrid, Mr. Buffett’s current wife. When Susan left Mr. Buffett in 1977 to move to San Francisco, the two remained married, and she later introduced him to Astrid, who became his longtime companion with her blessing. After Susan (whom Mr. Buffet also called Susie) died in 2004, Mr. Buffett married Astrid.“Susie and I and Astrid had an arrangement that worked maybe one time in a thousand,” Mr. Buffett said.Nonetheless, Mr. Buffett said that he asked Mr. Kunhardt to respect Astrid’s wishes not to be interviewed. For his part, the filmmaker said he retained full editorial control and decided that Susan was simply a much more vital part of Mr. Buffett’s story.And she is a huge part of “Becoming Warren Buffett,” from Mr. Buffett’s courtship of her to their raising their three children, thanks to a lengthy interview she gave Charlie Rose in 2004.She is credited with helping to shape Mr. Buffett’s liberal politics — along with a reaction to his beloved father’s conservative principles — through her interest in the civil rights movement.And Mr. Buffett credits his first wife with being the proper parent for his children and for helping push him into philanthropy. (Mr. Buffett has pledged to give away 99 percent of his fortune.)“The part that I liked best is that they get to see Susie,” he said of his first wife and the movie’s prospective audience. “What happened with me would not have happened without her.”Though Mr. Buffett is an octogenarian and has battled prostate cancer (successfully), he insists that participating in the movie wasn’t a way to cement his legacy.“This was not done because I think I’m getting my last haircut next week,” he said.“At 86, actuarially, I know what’s in the books, but literally I get to do what I love, and it’s easy for me,” he added. “I do not feel that my life is past its most interesting points.”
BRING BACK THE KINGThe New Science of De-ExtinctionBy Helen PilcherIllustrated. 304 pages. Bloomsbury Sigma. $27.Promoting his novel “Jurassic Park” on the “Today” show in 1990, Michael Crichton said, “Part of why I was interested in the book was to take an idea that seemed like a good idea and show why it might not be a good idea.”Long after the film version of “Jurassic Park” graphically cemented the “not a good idea” side as the winner, Helen Pilcher, a cell biologist, science journalist and erstwhile stand-up comedian, tries to rehabilitate the “good idea” in “Bring Back the King: The New Science of De-Extinction.” She writes with nearly unbridled enthusiasm about the possibility of bringing back dinosaurs, the woolly mammoth, the dodo bird and other extinct creatures, and about the people in the labs who are doing the work.The introduction displays everything that will be entertaining, harrowing and sometimes infuriating about the rest of the book. Pilcher starts off with humor, describing Celia, the last bucardo (a kind of mountain goat) to ever live: “Celia weighed as much as a washing machine, but was much more agile.” Researchers took small samples of Celia’s skin before she died in 2000, and in 2003 they delivered a clone, de-extincting the bucardo for a very brief time. The newborn goat looked great at first sight, but she had been born with deformed lungs. She “began struggling for breath and became increasingly distressed,” dying just seven minutes after birth.Soon after that gruesome moment, Pilcher regains her breezy footing. “Sure, the researchers were disappointed that she didn’t live longer,” she writes, “but then cloning has never been an exact science.”Pilcher’s subject is mostly “interspecies cloning,” “where the DNA of an endangered or extinct species is reprogrammed by the egg of a closely related, living species.”She brings little deep skepticism to the subject, but perhaps inadvertently provides plenty through her reporting. She writes about Jack Horner, a scientist who wishes, in Pilcher’s words, to “persuade evolution to run backwards.” He hoped to genetically modify modern-day chickens so that, one day, they would start resembling dinosaurs. One scientist on the project told Pilcher, “We ended up with a chicken with an odd-looking hand.” (That hand was on the embryo; because of ethical regulations, the embryos were never allowed to hatch.)If chicken embryos with odd-looking hands don’t sound likely to attract the attention of Steven Spielberg, they and their like seem enough to sustain Pilcher’s excitement.Michael Archer is an Australian paleontologist who wants to bring back the thylacine, a Tasmanian tiger. He broached the subject with his colleagues. “There was uproarious laughter,” he told Pilcher. They thought the idea was “completely ridiculous.” Pilcher writes, “But he wasn’t put off.” Her book sometimes feels like a gallery of people not put off by uproarious laughter.Pilcher ends nearly every chapter by admitting the impossibility or near impossibility of cloning the animals under review. Dinosaurs are out, for instance, because DNA has been found to have a half-life of 521 years, meaning that no trace of it could survive longer than 6.8 million years, about a tenth of the time since dinosaurs last roamed.Yet Pilcher sympathizes with a stubbornly optimistic scientist named Mary Schweitzer, who says: “If you can get DNA from a 700,000-year-old fossil, why not a million-year-old one? And if you can get DNA from a million-year-old fossil why not one that is seven or even 70 million years old?”It’s useful that Pilcher is upfront about her advocacy for her subject, though it does give one pause when she writes about especially controversial figures, like Hwang Woo-suk, convicted in 2009 of publishing fraudulent stem-cell research.Pilcher quickly acknowledges Hwang’s “spectacular, humiliating and public fall from grace,” but in the same sentence writes, “Yet through gritted teeth, dogged determination, and the emotional and financial support of many loyal fans, Hwang has quietly rebuilt his career.” He now clones dogs in South Korea. In a 2015 interview with NPR, Insoo Hyun, a bioethicist, said of Hwang, “I just don’t think someone like him can be trusted to follow the rules appropriately.”Pilcher does offer many of popular science’s deep and trivial brainy pleasures along the way. Just learning the name of the Cape Verde giant skink (a lizard) seems worth the price of admission. There are also informative condensed histories of extinct species like the passenger pigeon, which flew with a lot of company. (“If you took all the pigeons in the U.K., multiplied them 400 times, then launched them into the air, that would be the size of a single passenger pigeon flock.”)We’re told that we could probably bring back a Neanderthal today, and that at least one expert believes it might be best if he or she was home-schooled. (Neanderthals didn’t do well around strangers.) One of the last great auks, flightless birds, was “inexplicably branded a witch and beaten to death.” And maybe this doesn’t fall under pleasure, exactly, but you’ll learn far more than you want to know about an elephant’s sexual anatomy.Pilcher’s levity is welcome at times, but the former stand-up in her is given too many lines. Strenuous rimshots ring throughout the book. “There are no living fossils,” she writes, and an asterisk takes us to a footnote: “Apart from the Rolling Stones.” I’ll let that stand in for its ilk.By the time I got to the chapter on whether to clone Elvis Presley, I was worried the whole thing would be a forced gag. But Pilcher mostly uses it to discuss the genetic phenomenon of twins, given that Elvis had one, Jesse, who died at birth.“Of course, just because we can do something doesn’t mean we automatically should.” Pilcher writes this sentence, and others nearly identical to it, several times throughout “Bring Back the King.” Yet it rarely serves as more than a speed bump before another bout of cheerleading.One of the most convincing arguments she makes for aggressive efforts at de-extinction is that they help the living as well. They can teach us a lot about biology, information that we could apply to humans and other species. They might help people like you and me with things like stomach ulcers, and might help animals like the northern white rhino and others come back from the verge of extinction.There are things to recommend de-extinction, but a slightly less cheery approach to an incredibly complex subject (scientifically and ethically) might have helped me find them more persuasive.One scientist mentioned in the book believes de-extinction could help humankind, as Pilcher paraphrases it, “atone for its crimes against biodiversity.” This sounds specious. Forgetting the possible unintended ecological consequences of, say, darkening skies with passenger pigeons again, I don’t think the bucardo that lived for seven minutes would testify on our behalf at a trial for crimes against biodiversity.
BEIRUT, Lebanon — Sardar Hussain refused to believe it. He had been orphaned in Afghanistan by a Taliban bomb at age 13. After waiting in limbo for two years, he said he was only days away from getting on a plane to the United States when he heard that President Trump would be barring entry to refugees.Mustafa did believe it. He teared up, saying his life was over at age 28. An Iraqi refugee in Lebanon, he thought he was so close to getting to the United States that he had gone out and bought a new shirt for his trip.When she read on Facebook about the temporary ban, Alwia Abdullah, 43, who fled from Darfur in Sudan to Jordan with her husband and six children, got a sudden, stabbing pain in her gut, and couldn’t sleep.“We left because we were discriminated against in Darfur,” she said. “So to be discriminated against by a U.S. president, by a nation we see our future in, is so disheartening. How do you live with that?”They were among an estimated 110,000 people in line to be processed for resettlement in the United States during this fiscal year. In fact, they thought they had already made it through the rigorous vetting procedure and, after years of waiting, were on the verge of having their hopes realized.Now, all are suddenly, indefinitely waiting again, barred from entry to the United States for at least four months, according to an executive order signed by Mr. Trump on Friday, with no assurances of what could happen to them next.The order, Mr. Trump said, is a way to “keep radical Islamic terrorists out of the United States of America.”“We don’t want them here,” he said at the Pentagon. “We want to ensure that we are not admitting into our country the very threats our soldiers are fighting overseas.”The executive order calls for the United States’ annual refugee quota to be cut to a maximum of 50,000, compared with 85,000 allowed in during the fiscal year ending in September 2016.Even last year’s figure was dwarfed by the historically high number of displaced people in the world, 65 million, or by the more than 1.5 million migrants and refugees arriving in European countries since 2014.Mr. Trump’s order also suspends the entry of all Syrian refugees indefinitely, calling their arrival “detrimental to the interests of the United States.” Beyond that, it suspends visas to people from Iraq, Syria, Iran, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen for 90 days.Asked about Mr. Trump’s refugee ban, Stéphane Dujarric, the United Nations spokesman, said he hoped “it’s a temporary one.” He noted that more people were displaced around the world than ever before.“The U.S. resettlement program is one of the most important resettlement programs the U.N. works with,” he said.Mr. Trump’s action was the latest closed door in a world that has become increasingly unwelcome to refugees, amid rising concerns and hostility in many resettlement countries in Europe, and in countries of first refuge like Turkey and Lebanon.For those refugees, in particular, who thought that their asylum process was over and that they would be accepted in the United States, the dismay was overwhelming this past week.Faten Diab, 34, a former charity worker from Syria, said she had been told that she and her family would be among a relatively small number of Syrians allowed into the United States. Last year, only 10,000 had been granted that privilege, compared with 40,000 in Canada.Ms. Diab and her husband said she fled to Turkey and applied for asylum in the United States in summer 2015, along with close friends who applied at the same time. They said the friends had received a final decision just over a week ago and had flown to America. The Diabs had reason to hope that their own number would come up any day.Now, that may never happen. Reached by telephone in their tiny apartment in Turkey, Ms. Diab sounded distraught, as the couple’s 2-year-old daughter could be heard playing in the background.“We are so, so, so sad,” Ms. Diab said, complaining that Mr. Trump’s claim that terrorists were slipping in as refugees was overblown. “The process of resettlement is long and difficult. You can say he is wrong. Because he didn’t live the application steps in all its difficulties.”Strictly speaking, America does not actually owe anything to the Diabs from Syria or the Abdullahs from Darfur; they are just reacting to its historical promise to take the world’s “huddled masses yearning to breathe free.”But in other countries, like Iraq, citizens who worked for the American military, government and companies were promised preferential treatment for resettlement. Many thought that the risks they took on behalf of the United States would be repaid one day with a safe haven when they needed it. Now Iraqis are also on Mr. Trump’s proscribed list.Laith al-Samari, 37, was one of many who could not believe it. A former interpreter for the United States military, he was wounded twice in battle, in the leg and stomach, and now lives in fear of retaliation from anti-American militants in his Baghdad community. He was not ashamed to beg.“Please Mr. President, you are the president of one of the biggest states in the world,” he said. “Don’t be hasty in taking this decision. Be fair with us.”Mustafa, the 28-year-old Iraqi, is a Shiite Muslim who worked on construction crews on American bases, mostly on fortifications. As he put it: “I made homes for them that kept them safe. I felt I was doing something good for humanity.”But anti-Shiite militias in his neighborhood discovered what his job had been and accused him of treason. “I was beaten and shot and knifed and eventually came to Lebanon two years ago,” he said, during an interview arranged in Beirut by the International Refugee Assistance Project, a New York-based legal aid group.After years of interviews and investigation, Mustafa said he was finally told to take his medical examination and now only needed to be given the date for his flight, to California. To get ready, Mustafa splurged at a high-end Beirut store to buy the clothes he would wear into his new life: dark green pants, a vest, a checked shirt in four colors. “I would wear the best clothes I have, and I wouldn’t take anything else with me, not even my memories,” he said.Mustafa still has some hope that somehow exceptions will be made, which is why — like most of the refugees interviewed for this article — he did not want his full name published.“If I do get rejected,” he said, “I’d regret ever having shaken hands with an American.” He struggled not to weep.Sardar Hussain, 16, an ethnic Hazara boy from central Afghanistan, was rocked by disbelief.He said that when he was 13, his father, mother and younger sister were killed when a bomb blew up a taxi that was taking his mother to a hospital. After paying a smuggling network $7,000 to get him to Australia, he was marooned en route, on the Indonesian island of Java, when Australia cracked down on boats bringing refugees there. For seven weeks, he slept on the sidewalk behind the United Nations offices in Jakarta, Indonesia. Now, after more than two years, he said, his flight to America was scheduled for Monday.“We were given a commitment to go there,” he said, speaking softly in English at a coffee house in Jakarta, just after completing his final medical exam.Firas al-Swiha, 23, a Syrian refugee in Turkey, went out with friends on Wednesday night to drink away his disappointment. He was a university student and opposition activist in Syria before fleeing his hometown, Raqqa, now the Islamic State’s de facto capital.He was still looking for answers.“Is Trump trying to fight the terrorists by giving up on the victims of the very same terrorists?” he asked. “ISIS wants to destroy our lives, and now Trump declined to give us one.”Sara, 31, a former television presenter who fled to Indonesia from Afghanistan after death threats — the Taliban and other cultural conservatives despise seeing Afghan women in public at all, let alone on television — was trying to arrive at answers of her own.“You just wait,” she said. “You see how the years pass. You get older, you cannot make any plans. You watch your dreams die with every second you spend waiting.”After three years and four months, she thought that the waiting was finally over, and that she would soon have a date when she was allowed to fly.Now her life has been suspended for at least four more months, with no guarantee that she will still be included in the Trump administration’s much-reduced refugee quota once the visa moratorium is lifted.“The bitter truth,” she said, “is that your whole life is dependent on a single decision of someone who doesn’t have even the slightest idea what it’s like to live as a refugee.”
ELIZABETH BISHOPA Miracle for BreakfastBy Megan MarshallIllustrated. 365 pages. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. $30.Elizabeth Bishop published only 100 poems during her lifetime. Most were concise. “Something needn’t be large,” she maintained, “to be good.”This is true of biographies. I was heartened to see that the text of Megan Marshall’s “Elizabeth Bishop: A Miracle for Breakfast,” before back matter, runs to just 305 pages. Short and sharp: Bishop would have approved.We need a new life of Bishop (1911-1979). She was a fastidious and commanding poet who won a Pulitzer Prize, a National Book Award and served as poet laureate (then called consultant in poetry to the Library of Congress) in 1949-50.The last major biography of her, Brett Millier’s “Elizabeth Bishop: Life and the Memory of It,” appeared in 1992. A flood of new material has been tapped since then, including letters from Bishop to her psychiatrist and several of her female lovers.Yet Marshall’s biography is dull and dispiriting. The author, who studied briefly with Bishop at Harvard in the mid- to late-1970s, has made the awkward decision to interlard the text at regular intervals with detailed stories from her own life: her youth, her depression, her attempts to study music (“losing music had been part of my sadness”) and poetry.There’s precedent for this sort of authorial insertion. There’s a good deal of James Boswell in “The Life of Samuel Johnson” (1791). Less successfully, Edmund Morris inserted a semi-fictional character named “Edmund Morris” into “Dutch” (1999), his biography of Ronald Reagan. Graham Greene’s indefatigable biographer, Norman Sherry, included a valiant photograph of himself in search of facts on a donkey in the final volume of his three-part bio.Marshall’s attempts at memoir are painfully earnest. “I’d taken him a loaf of banana bread I baked one week, in lieu of a poem,” she reports about her interactions with one Harvard professor. Each of these reveries, some of which include samples of the biographer’s own verse (“Take flight, larks with a freedom earthbound creatures/Can’t know”), is about three slices short of a loaf and has no place here.Marshall has proven herself, in her previous books, to be a sensitive and lucid biographer. I admired her “Margaret Fuller: A New American Life” (2013), which won a Pulitzer Prize.Here her gifts have largely fled her. This book does not contain strong or especially perceptive readings of Bishop’s poems. Marshall fails to fully set the milieu of midcentury American poetry. She lacks seizing talons for detail.One example: Bishop maintained over many decades a love-hate relationship with The New Yorker, to which she regularly contributed poems. This relationship is very lightly sketched in Marshall’s biography. An ocean of humane and comic detail is left on the cutting room floor.Reading Marshall, you would never know that Bishop wrote the following to her mentor, the poet Marianne Moore: “What I think about The New Yorker can only be expressed like this: *!@!!!@!*!!” You would never know that she loathed the way The New Yorker inserted commas into her poems, rendering them less “liquid,” as she put it.You would not know that she once composed, and sent to a friend, a cruel little poem about Howard Moss, her longtime editor at the magazine:Reading Marshall, you would not know that Alfred Kazin, in his journals, wrote the following about Bishop’s hair: It “rises electrically up her head” and “seems to shoot up straight, connected node to node to sparks.”Sparks are what this biography does not have, beginning with its subtitle. “A Miracle for Breakfast” is the name of one of Bishop’s best early poems (“At six o’clock we were waiting for coffee,/waiting for coffee and the charitable crumb”), but it rests oddly atop this book as a whole. What miracle? Whose breakfast?Bishop was an only child. Her father died when she was 8 months old. Her mother was permanently committed to a mental institution when the poet was 5. She grew up with grandparents and other family members, a veritable orphan. She did have a small trust fund. She attended Vassar College, where she founded a literary magazine, Con Spirito, with Mary McCarthy.Marshall is good on Bishop’s growing awareness that she was sexually attracted to women. She details her crushes and relationships from summer camp and prep school onward.Bishop’s longest relationship was with Lota de Macedo Soares, an architect from a prominent Brazilian family. Bishop lived with her in Brazil for more than 15 years before Soares died from an overdose of Valium in 1967, possibly because of her deteriorating relationship with Bishop.Tragedy streaked Bishop’s life. There was her father’s early death and her mother’s mental illness. After Bishop declined a young man’s marriage proposal, he shot himself. Bishop was a passenger in a car that overturned in Europe, causing one of her close friends to lose her right arm below the elbow.Her own health and sanity were often precarious. She suffered from anxiety, asthma and eczema. She drank far too much. One doctor prescribed her, Marshall notes, “Theoglycinate and Bellergal pills, adrenaline shots, sulfate cartridges for an inhaler that made her feel like the caterpillar smoking a hookah in ‘Alice in Wonderland.’” She seemed to carry around a Hunter S. Thompson-ish kit bag of medications.As Bishop aged, she increasingly took on younger lovers, sometimes women less than half her age. After decades of reading about the late-life sexual exploits of male poets, this is tonic. Bishop once boasted to Robert Lowell, a close friend, that she’d “never met a woman I couldn’t make.”Bishop praised Lowell’s poems by calling them “as different from the rest of our contemporaries as, say, ice from slush.” I wish this biography had more ice. Sometimes less is less.
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka — Seated on a platform outside a regional post office in Sri Lanka’s former war zone, about 150 miles north of the capital, Colombo, a mother whose son has been missing for seven years sobbed as she spoke.“All we are asking for is for them to give us our children back. They took my child,” the aggrieved mother, Sangarappillai Vanalochini, said in an interview widely viewed on television and social media in Sri Lanka this week.For four days, Ms. Vanalochini has refused food and water, joining 13 other people on a hunger strike in the northern town of Vavuniya, only a few miles away from the center of some of the most brutal fighting during Sri Lanka’s 26-year civil war, which ended in 2009.She and the others fasting are trying to force the government to investigate what happened to family members who disappeared during the conflict in which Tamil Tiger rebels fought for a separate state for the Tamil minority in the island nation’s north and east.The condition of the hunger strikers grew so grave on Thursday that Sri Lanka’s state defense minister, Ruwan Wijewardene, flew from the capital to meet them. The strikers agreed on Thursday evening to call off their fast after he promised in writing to ensure “a proper response on Feb. 9 through a meeting between the families of the disappeared and a delegation of government ministers and officials at the office of the prime minister,” said Ruki Fernando, an activist who has been in regular contact with the families.If the response is not satisfactory at that meeting, “the families have said they will restart a larger fast unto death,” he said. The state defense minister could not immediately be reached for comment.The government under the former president, Mahinda Rajapaksa, defeated the Tamil rebels, ending the civil war in a surge of violence. Amnesty International estimates that 60,000 to 100,000 people are still missing from two communist insurgencies and the long war with the Tamil Tiger rebels.The current president, Maithripala Sirisena, was elected to office in a stunning upset in 2015, to a great extent on the promise of promoting justice and reconciliation, including an investigation into the disappearances during the war. But little progress has been made in the two years since he took office.Human rights groups say that many of the thousands who disappeared were abducted by military units and paramilitary groups, while some who surrendered to government forces at the end of the conflict never came home.Canagasabapathy Viswa-lingam Wigneswaran, the chief minister for the Tamil-majority Northern Province, said in a letter to Mr. Sirisena this week that the Tamil people had placed “tremendous expectations and hope” in Mr. Sirisena in 2015 and helped to elect him to office.“Those hopes seem to be eroding in recent times,” he said in the letter.A Tamil member of Parliament, S. Sivamohan, said that Tamils had grown increasingly frustrated at the lack of progress. He noted that the Sirisena government passed a law to set up a permanent office last August to investigate disappearances. But six months later, the office has yet to be constituted.“All the initiatives of the government remain on paper, there has been nothing evident in practice,” Dr. Sivamohan said.A spokesman for Mr. Sirisena declined to comment.Mr. Fernando, the activist, said that the strikers had expressed deep frustration at the beginning of their fast, and that years of protests, petitions, complaints and testimony had yielded nothing.“If the government is serious about postwar reconciliation, it’s time to move beyond rhetoric,” he said.
The Schuyler Sisters are singing at the Super Bowl.The National Football League said Friday that Phillipa Soo, Renée Elise Goldsberry and Jasmine Cephas Jones, the actresses who originated the roles of Eliza, Angelica and Peggy Schuyler in “Hamilton,” would reunite to perform “America the Beautiful” during the televised pregame show.The three women are popular among fans of the Broadway musical — at the annual BroadwayCon gathering of theater fans, now underway in New York, some people dress as the characters, and at a recent Sotheby’s auction of Hamilton family documents there was particular interest in correspondence involving the sisters. (Eliza, of course, married Alexander Hamilton, and, after his death in a duel, became a champion of his legacy; Angelica was a confidante of both Alexander and Eliza.)None of the actresses is still in the show’s cast. Ms. Soo is preparing to star in the title role of a new Broadway musical, “Amélie,” which begins previews March 9; Ms. Goldsberry, who won a Tony award for her performance in “Hamilton,” is now working on the Netflix series “Altered Carbon,” and Ms. Jones has filmed appearances in “Girls” and “Blood Surf.”The N.F.L. had previously announced that the Super Bowl halftime show would be headlined by Lady Gaga, and that Luke Bryan would sing the national anthem.The pregame “America the Beautiful” has been sung by a variety of pop stars, including Ray Charles, Alicia Keys and Faith Hill.This year’s Super Bowl, which will take place in Houston, is scheduled to begin at 6:30 Eastern Time on Feb. 5 on FOX television. “America the Beautiful” is expected to air shortly before then — at about 6:20 Eastern Time.
Am I the only one to have found the pace of tonight’s episode to be a bit off? A bit too slow, a bit tiresome — kind of like, I imagine, how it may feel for Carrie to be on her meds.Mood-related or not, there is an increasingly uncomfortable difference between the pitch and tenor of Carrie’s civilian life, with its rule-bound power plays, compromises and lies, and the raw, desperate thrill of her old existence in the C.I.A. It’s the normal-people issue we encountered in her half-life with Jonas in Berlin all over again.Normal people don’t defy court orders. Normal people don’t stage spy-meets-spy rendezvous in the shadow of porch lights out in the suburbs. Normal people don’t conclude their announcement that they’ve blown a person’s chance of avoiding a 15-year maximum-security prison term with the words, “I am so, so sorry.”Neither do they then promise, with confidence, to “fix this.”(“What are you talking about?” a normal person, like Sekou Bah, would indeed shout. “How could you do this to me?”)Normal people don’t have half-crazed, lovesick, poison gas victims living in their basement. Which, when you think about the big picture, may not be so bad.After all, in a world where mutual manipulation passes for friendship, and the guardians of public safety are craven liars, there’s something to be said for the steady presence of a possibly paranoid old friend with a gun standing sentinel by one’s doorstep.Good old Quinn. I’m sure we were all thrilled when he oh-so-cooly upended vile Tommy’s drug table and bashed his head in. (Slightly. Not nearly enough.) I’m sure we all — though it was kind of yucky — felt our hearts go out to him, too, when he responded to Carrie’s comforting hug with a somewhat less therapeutically minded embrace.Quinn and Carrie need to work out their issues, and fast, if this season of “Homeland” is going to grab us by the guts anytime soon. We’ve had just about enough stage-setting. For the plot to move forward, we know:That Saul is not a fan of Israel’s settlement policy. To put it mildly. “A place that’s not yours. Where you don’t belong” is how he describes his sister’s village. “A form of insanity” is his take on her belief in the Biblical vision of a greater Israel.That Dar — and the Israelis — will do whatever it takes to manipulate the United States government into hostile action against Iran. This includes, it seems, setting a honey trap for an Iranian government official and then using him to convince Saul that Iran is engaged in a nuclear arms deal with North Korea. (I assume that’s the meaning of that crumpled cigarette pack.)That Saul, without Mira, without Carrie, without Dar, and with an Israeli settler for a sister and Indiana, of all places, as his childhood home, is terribly, existentially, alone.And that the only place on earth for Carrie, Quinn and Saul is, somehow, together. And it will happen — Carrie, after all, is essentially channeling Saul’s truth to president-elect Keane, to Dar-Adal’s chagrin. And someone bad is setting up shop across the way in Bed-Stuy — a new plotline that, I hope, will speed our friends toward a working reunion. (Giving us, perhaps, an opportunity to understand how they — even Max! — happened to all end up in New York at the same time.)In the meantime, I’ll leave you with one question: what’s the deal with president-elect Keane? Is she a master manipulator, flipping switches on Dar so rapidly that he’s finding himself on the losing end of their cat-and-mouse game? Or is she admitting defeat — and asking him for help and political protection?“I think I’ll stick with you./As you wish./I wish.”With Carrie, she’s another person altogether — letting her hair down, as the cliché has it — and doing a rather bizarre pantomime of friendship.“Right. Forgot. Sorry” felt like a less-than-kind acknowledgment of her new “friend” and her inability to drink.How well does Keane know Carrie — and in what context?And will Carrie ever make a real female friend?
TEHRAN — As Iranians woke on Saturday to the news that none of them would be able to enter the United States for at least 90 days, on the orders of President Trump, panic reigned.They were turned back from flights to the United States in Tehran and in the major transfer hubs of Istanbul and Dubai. Some of those who arrived in the United States after midnight, when the decree went into effect, were held or deported, rights groups and airline representatives said.No one, not passengers, airline representatives or even United States border control officials, seemed to know how to interpret the executive order that went into effect at midnight on Friday. Under the new policy, refugees, immigrants and almost anyone from seven countries deemed to be hotbeds of terrorism are banned from the United States for 90 days, pending a review of policies.Officials are just interpreting the directive by themselves, said one representative for an international airline who was based in Tehran. He said the airline did not know if Iranians could fly to the United States or not.On Saturday, three international airlines shuttling passengers between Iran and the United States — Emirates, Lufthansa and Qatar Airways — had stopped allowing Iranians with visas or even permanent residence cards to board their planes. The Qatar Airways office in Tehran confirmed that all Iranian passengers without United States passports were stopped from flying to the United States on Friday evening and sent back to Iran.In Istanbul, during a stopover on Saturday, passengers reported that security officers had entered a plane after everybody boarded and ordered a young Iranian woman and her family to leave the aircraft.Holders of green cards, which confer the right to live and work indefinitely in the United States, received conflicting information about whether or not they would be permitted to return to the United States. But on Saturday, the Department of Homeland Security clarified the executive order, saying it applied even to permanent residents from the seven Muslim-majority countries named in the ban: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen.“It will bar green card holders,” Gillian Christensen, the Department of Homeland Security’s acting spokeswoman, told Reuters.Many were blindsided by the decree while on vacation in Iran. “How do I get back home now?” said Daria Zeynalia, a green card holder who was visiting family in Iran. He had rented a house and leased a car and would be eligible for citizenship in November. “What about my job? If I can’t go back soon, I’ll lose everything,” he said.It is unclear how many Iranians have green cards, but experts say the number runs into the hundreds of thousands.In an online survey tracking entry challenges, two out of 112 passengers holding green cards said they were not allowed into the United States, but the reasons were unclear. Card holders can be barred, for instance, if they owe back taxes.Others spent years preparing to study in the United States only to see their plans abruptly thwarted on Friday. About 4,000 Iranians are granted study visas to attend American universities each year, often after a long and complicated process that can take years.Shadi Heidarifar, a philosophy student just admitted to New York University, said in a message on Twitter that she had spent three years trying to apply to universities in the United States.“I had to work to save money, gather documents. The application fees were so expensive that a whole family could live for a month” on them, Ms. Heidarifar wrote. When she was accepted recently, she was over the moon. “But now my entire future is destroyed in one second.”
Reality television, in recent years, has submitted participants to extreme emotional interrogation, extreme physical assault, extreme isolation and extreme regional accents. It was never enough to aim a camera at someone and just keep it there; instead the genre has made severe circumstances normal.This stripping away of comforts sets the stage for the new reality competition “Hunted,” which pushes participants to become fugitives hoping to evade capture by a team of highly experienced law enforcement professionals. On the surface, “Hunted”— running Wednesdays on CBS — is a parable about the ubiquity of surveillance. For 28 days, and over four states in the South, nine pairs of contestants have to remain out of the reach of the hunters, a group of 32 investigators who are provided with policelike resources to track them: phone and bank records, surveillance videos and so on.But the state is at its most pernicious and effective when surveillance is presented as entertainment, and “Hunted” turns extreme psychological warfare — the invasion of privacy and the discomfort it engenders — into casual sport. It’s most intriguing as a document of how the diminishing of personal rights cannot only be normalized, but even embraced.Contestants are a mix of rabble-rousers and naifs, with the anti-authoritarian types providing far more roadblocks for the captors, and therefore far more entertainment. There’s David, a heavily tattooed former gang member turned criminal defense attorney, who successfully creates a decoy rental car arrangement to throw off the hunters. Lee, who operates an escape room business, destroys all of his technology and creates an elaborate system of snail mail and email drafts to communicate with the outside world. Troy and Chele, who sell Airsoft guns, a type of low-power air gun, go off the grid in the Florida swamps (recalling another History show, “Alone,” that extracts more drama from a similar setup of severe isolation).This is mildy amusing, not quite nail-biting stuff. There are a handful of close calls that add drama, but mainly “Hunted” operates at the low hum of network reality television, which tends to avoid the herky-jerky extremes more common on cable shows like “Naked and Afraid.” The quiet terror of “Hunted” comes in the tracking, which reveals just how quickly one’s life can be unraveled by someone with access to the right keys.“Hunted” also benefits from the dissonance between what is presented as actual detective by its investigators, and what has been permitted by the contestants. In an interview, Rob Smith, an executive producer of the show, explained that participants granted access in advance to their personal records, homes and phones, and then that information was meted out to the hunters the same way it would have been during an actual investigation. “There was a clear firewall between the hunter team and fugitive team,” Mr. Smith said.But the hunters also engage in some off-the-cuff tactics. In last Wednesday’s episode, a computer forensics expert successfully accesses David’s Gmail by guessing the answers to his security questions. And in another case, two hunters in the field persuade a man to allow them to set up a camera in his home in order to survey a target living across the street.Turns out surveillance is a game almost everyone is willing to play, if given the chance. Last week, a new pair of fugitives was introduced to the game — a pair of Muslim men, Aarif and Immad — and it will be intriguing to see how “Hunted” details their quest to disappear.“Hunted” takes no clear position on the surveillance state. (“We don’t make judgments,” Mr. Smith said, adding that the show was filmed without the assistance of government or law enforcement.) Though notionally, those on the run are the show’s heroes, “Hunted” spends almost as much time focusing on the hunters — the tradecraft of tracking and that of evasion are given almost equal weight, and equal credibility. The result is a not insignificant moral ambiguity.This haziness is a recurring theme on “Hunted,” as well as on “The Selection,” which just completed its first season on History. (It can be seen on history.com.) On that show, 30 civilians submit to extreme military training of the sort used to narrow down candidates for the Green Berets and Navy SEALs. Participants are identified by number, not name. Like the participants in “Hunted,” they have allowed themselves to be stripped of their identities, though in a different fashion: The submission required in “Hunted” leaves participants scrambling to discover their inner reserves as an act of resistance, while the submission required in “The Selection” is about removing any last form of resistance to outside authority.These contestants are broken down physically and mentally via grueling challenges, filmed with solemnity. They run through desert hills with 50-pound backpacks. They are placed in a gas chamber with no mask. They tie knots underwater, then are thrown back underwater with hands and feet tied and challenged to remain calm. They stand locked arm-in-arm as the waves of the Pacific Ocean crash over them and tear them apart, until they learn how to stay together as one.Here, too, the instructors are occasionally sympathetic characters. One is a martial arts master, another was severely injured in an explosion in Sadr City in Iraq. They are ruthless in the early phases of the “event,” as they call it, but soften as participants quit, which they do, in droves.That is because power seeks to reinforce itself through replication.Unlike on “Hunted,” where the two sides are in permanent opposition, on “The Selection” the instructors are looking to, in essence, mint new peers. The civilians who begin the series as anonymous grunts end up as something like brothers to the men who put them through their paces.There is no formal prize on “The Selection” — finishing is its own reward. At the end of the season, four men complete the final obstacle, each breaking down in tears as he is informed that he has successfully completed the course. The men embrace one another, and are embraced by the instructors. Depending on your viewpoint, these are men who have found a brotherhood, or a higher calling to pledge loyalty to. The watched are ready to become the watchers.
“Yuck! Yuck! Yuck!” the other children would shout, teasing Katherine Yuk all through elementary school about her Chinese last name.“When I was a child and a new immigrant in Canada, I longed for the day when I could get married and take someone else’s last name,” she wrote.Ms. Yuk was one of more than 16,000 readers who responded when The New York Times asked women around the world why they had kept or changed their surnames when they married.By the time she had the chance, Ms. Yuk wrote, her thinking had come around. She decided to embrace and keep her name, despite the teasing.“I hadn’t only survived it, but it had defined me — as someone who was different yet proud of those differences, a survivor of childhood bullying, a first-generation immigrant with a funny last name who had found her own skin and found her own opportunities and identity,” said Ms. Yuk, now 45 and living in Toronto. “I didn’t want to lose my identity.”Women from a variety of nationalities, religions, sexual orientations and ages wrote to The Times about how their names were a core part of who they were. For many, the decision on whether to change their names carried significant weight, and it was shaped by the traditions, the norms and, in some cases, the laws of the societies in which they live. Some looked to their names as badges of cultural identity, others as symbolic links to their fathers that they were eager to preserve, or to sever.Here are some of the responses. They have been edited and condensed.Joy Perkins in New York City, via Facebook. She changed her name.Katherine Ruiz-Avila, who grew up in Australia and now lives in Delhi, did not change her name.Zoë Foustokjian, 27, in Montreal.Rebecca Vogels, 32, is German and based in Vienna.Lori Latus, 53, in Lexington, Ky., and Melbourne, Australia. She kept her name.Julie Benton, 62, lives in the United States and Australia and is in a same-sex marriage. She took her partner’s surname.Peggy McGillicuddy, 45, in Toronto. She kept her name.Kristina Wallengren Steengaard, 46, a Swede living in South Africa, is married to a Danish man. Both use a combined surname.Morgan Fraser, 27, in Canada. She kept her name.Isolde Raftery, an Irish immigrant living in Seattle, via Facebook. She kept her name.Emily Mathisen, 32, in Vancouver, British Columbia. She kept her name.Natasha Hong, 29, a Han Chinese of Singaporean descent living in Singapore and married to a white British man.Yue Zhou, 32, Chinese-American living in Singapore.Suzie Houghton, 32, in Melbourne. She has been married for a month and is in the process of changing her name.Kappy Flanders, 78, in Montreal.Jennifer Lahue, 48, an American living in Vienna.Angeli Humilde, 26, lives in Canada and is recently engaged. Her mother grew up in the Philippines.Joan Card Redemer, 64, who is from California and living in Antwerp, Belgium. She changed her name.
“La La Land” continued its steady march to Oscar glory on Saturday night, winning the top award from the Producers Guild of America, one of the three industry groups whose prizes often heavily predict Oscars wins.The organization also awarded its best documentary honor to Ezra Edelman, whose “O.J.: Made in America” has also been collecting awards all season long. The movie is nearly eight hours long and aired as a mini-series on ESPN, raising some questions over whether it should be allowed run for an Oscar. (The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences said it checked all the eligibility requirements and could.)And best animated feature went to “Zootopia,” another favorite in the race.“La La Land” has been nominated for 14 Oscars, including best picture, and the Producers Guild Award winner often ends up collecting the top Oscar, too, though there are exceptions. Last year’s PGA winner, “The Big Short,” lost the best picture Oscar to “Spotlight,” though the year before that, “Birdman” collected both the PGA and the best picture Oscar. And in 2014 the guild voted to split the prize between “Gravity” and “12 Years a Slave,” with “12 Years” eventually winning the Oscar for best picture.The national uproar over President Donald J. Trump’s executive order banning refugees and visa holders from specific Muslim countries was brought up at various points into the ceremony. Introducing a clip from “La La Land,” the musician John Legend took direct aim at Mr. Trump.“Los Angeles is the home of so many immigrants, so many creative people, so many dreamers,” he said. “Our America is big, it is free, and it is open to dreamers of all races, all countries, all religions. Our vision of America is directly antithetical to that of President Trump. I want to specifically tonight reject his vision and affirm that America has to be better than that.”
The film director Tomer Heymann entered — or barged — into the life of the Israeli choreographer Ohad Naharin 25 years ago, first as his waiter at a cafe and then as the boyfriend of one of his dancers. He became obsessed with Mr. Naharin’s work and in 2007 persuaded him to let him film his creative process for “Out of Focus,” a documentary about Mr. Naharin’s experience with the now-defunct Cedar Lake Contemporary Ballet in New York.But Mr. Heymann wanted more — to do another, longer documentary. Most artists would be flattered, but not Mr. Naharin. “I don’t like to leave evidence,” he said. Eventually, though, he caved in to Mr. Heymann’s request to make another film about his life and work.“He was already living in my underwear,” Mr. Naharin said with a sigh in a recent interview.“Mr. Gaga: A True Story of Love and Dance,” eight years in the making, is Mr. Heymann’s portrait of Mr. Naharin, who is the artistic director of Batsheva Dance Company, based in Tel Aviv. “I didn’t take the process as seriously as he did,” Mr. Naharin said. “It’s his life project maybe, but for me, I just allowed a man, a director and a cameraman — a lovely person — to be around and document what we were doing. We were still in our own playground.”For Mr. Naharin, 64, a playground is what he calls his studio, where he creates slippery, enigmatic dances that flicker between strident assertions of bold physicality and buttery fluidity. His latest is called “Last Work” — though it isn’t really — and will be performed by Batsheva at the Brooklyn Academy of Music beginning Wednesday, Feb. 1, the same day “Mr. Gaga” opens at Film Forum and at the Elinor Bunin Munroe Film Center at the Film Society Lincoln Center.“Last Work” is a title Mr. Naharin almost used for his previous three dances. This time it stuck. “It’s a very dramatic name,” he said. “I like that I can create drama without giving anything away. And it’s also very true. It was my last work for the moment when I was doing it, so you can also take it very lightly.”Mr. Naharin doesn’t like to give much away regarding his dances. Despite that, here are a few nuggets about “Last Work”: It features an original score by the German electronic music producer Grischa Lichtenberger; selections include Romanian lullabies; and there is a dancer who runs on a treadmill — it’s built into the set — at the back of the stage for the work’s duration of a little more than an hour.For each of his pieces, Mr. Naharin creates codes or rules for his dancers to follow during the choreographic process. In “Last Work,” one idea was that there would be no improvisation; another involved three words: baby, ballerina and executioner. At the beginning of the process, he told his dancers to embody one or all of those characters.“I don’t care at all if you realize it when you watch the piece,” he said. He incorporated the idea as a means to find emotion and essence. “Why do we do this step? What is the texture? What is the flow of energy? How much effort do you put into it? How does your skin feel? How does the scope of sensations connect to what you feel?”This methodology relates directly to Mr. Naharin’s dance language, Gaga, which stresses a heightened awareness of the senses and the expansiveness of the body; it is a way, as he often tells practitioners, “to use your flesh to grab your bones.” As the teacher calls out instructions — to, say, move like spaghetti in boiling water — the student responds from the inside out. There are no mirrors. (Gaga was created for both professionals and nonprofessionals. Classes, designated for “people” or “dancers,” are offered in New York at Gibney Dance and the Mark Morris Dance Center.)In the title of his movie — its producer is Barak Heymann, his brother — Mr. Heymann pays homage to Gaga; and the film, in an indirect way, reveals how Mr. Naharin came to invent it. Gaga isn’t a technique; it’s a life’s work. Mr. Heymann met Mr. Naharin after Mr. Naharin relocated to Tel Aviv from New York with his wife, Mari Kajiwara, an esteemed member of Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater who died of cancer in 2001.He had just taken over the artistic direction of Batsheva, and Mr. Heymann was a waiter at a restaurant that the couple frequented. They fascinated him.“The country was not familiar with mixed couples,” Mr. Heymann said. “Who was this Japanese woman who took up a lot of space? She had tremendous dignity and a kind of royal presence. It did not matter if you were gay, straight, man, woman — you could not take your eyes from her. At the same time, you really wanted to follow the man, because the man was sexy. So this a very confusing couple. Who did you want to look at first?”Mr. Heymann discovered his passion for dance through Mr. Naharin — if reluctantly. He didn’t realize who his customer was, but a cousin who worked with Batsheva repeatedly offered him tickets to see Mr. Naharin’s “Kyr.”“I told myself, there will be a break and I will leave and tell her it was O.K.,” Mr. Heymann said. But when it was over, he continued, “I ran to the ocean and jumped in with my clothes on.”He watched the dance, he said, 30 times in 30 days. It was transformative for him. After seeing it, he said: “Tel Aviv looked different. The sound of the birds, the sound of the waves, the taste of ice cream — it was different. I was on drugs without using drugs.”It featured a section set to a Passover song in which performers sit in a semicircle and rise one by one to fling off pieces of clothing — black suits and white shirts. Members of some Israeli religious groups protested, but it remains a much-lauded dance that pinpoints a luscious and ecstatic yearning. (It is included in “Minus 16,” which Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater has performed to impressive effect.)Along with footage of his dances, “Mr. Gaga” also shows the man behind the movement. He spent his early years on a kibbutz; later, when an ankle injury made him ineligible for combat in the Israeli army, he joined an army entertainment group. He started formal dance training extremely late, at 22, and while dancing with Batsheva, he was discovered by a smitten Martha Graham — who had a close association with the company — and moved to New York to work with her.It wasn’t a great fit, which Mr. Naharin blames on himself: “I think it had a lot to do with me totally unprepared for the big world,” he said. After 10 months, he left the Graham organization and attended Juilliard and the School of American Ballet; he also met Ms. Kajiwara and began choreographing. In the film, dancers who worked with Mr. Naharin in the early years speak of his harshness as a director. During performances, he would shout things like, “You’re boring me!”Mr. Naharin said he has spent years working to become less severe. Inventing Gaga helped him to figure out how to talk to his dancers. “I learned that in order to have people want to work with you,” he said, “the only power that you’re allowed to apply is the power of convincing. And if I can convince, I don’t have to be harsh.”
Not all breakthrough television is on a high-profile channel like HBO, and not all of it makes a ratings splash. A case in point: “Switched at Birth,” which begins its fifth and final season on Tuesday on Freeform. It is a series that has shown, consistently and without much fanfare, how to illuminate deaf culture — and, by extension, any other that faces impairments — without being condescending, sensationalizing or preachy.The series is about two families whose daughters, Daphne (Katie Leclerc) and Bay (Vanessa Marano), were, well, switched at birth: Bay ended up being raised by Daphne’s affluent parents, John and Kathryn Kennish (D. W. Moffett and Lea Thompson), and Daphne was raised by Regina Vasquez (Constance Marie), a single mother. The catch: Daphne lost most of her hearing as a young child. When, in the premiere, 15-year-old Bay discovers the mistake while doing a school blood-typing project, the Kennishes meet a biological daughter who communicates largely in sign language.That may sound like the recipe for a lighthearted swapped-identity film along the lines of “The Parent Trap,” and that may have been what some viewers expected when the show had its premiere in June 2011 on a tweener-and-teen-centered channel that was then known as ABC Family. But the show’s creator, Lizzy Weiss, was going for something more substantive. The high aspirations were evident in the tendency to refer to noteworthy paintings for episode titles — the premiere was called “This Is Not a Pipe,” a name drawn from a Magritte work.As for subject matter, the series wasn’t interested in merely providing a surface look at the deaf and hearing-impaired world. Before 20 minutes had passed in the first episode, it had broached the subject of the cochlear implant and why many hearing-impaired people object to it and to the whole notion that deafness is something to be “cured.” A show that might have used its deaf characters for feel-good moments, the way “Glee” sometimes used Artie and his wheelchair, instead signaled that it intended to be more challenging and thought-provoking.And it has been, for more than 90 episodes. It has explored questions like whether putting hearing-impaired students in a separate school for the deaf is isolating and limiting, or protective and empowering. It has noted the obstacles large and small faced by such students — in one episode, Daphne almost burned down her school because, in cooking class, she couldn’t hear the timer that told her when the deep fryer was done.But the series has pulled off the difficult trick of shedding light on the deaf world but not being a de facto documentary about it. The show is, at heart, about relationships, and this being a teenage-centered series, some of them are romantic. When those have involved a hearing character and a deaf one, the results have been far pithier than is normal for preadult dramas, cutting to the heart of what communication is and how much we can learn about another person without words.But the show has also been driven by other relationships, especially the one between Bay and Daphne, who, as Season 5 opens, are traveling together in China and face a crisis. The two mothers, Kathryn and Regina, have also enjoyed a complex and ever-evolving relationship.“Switched at Birth” has done all of this with a cast full of deaf and hearing-impaired actors — in addition to Ms. Leclerc, they include Ryan Lane, Sean Berdy and Marlee Matlin. Some of the show’s hearing stars have learned sign language for their roles, which has had unexpected rewards.“It really deepens your acting to use your hands,” Ms. Thompson told Parade Magazine. “That’s a great acting challenge, and one that I won’t forget.”The series, never a ratings hit, has been off the air for more than a year as Freeform has looked for an opening in its schedule to slip in its final season. Its fans will certainly be glad for one more chance to savor a series that has, in its quiet way, broken down barriers that many viewers didn’t even know were there.
No Alison, no Cole, no Gunther, only the briefest glimpse of Helen through a window. “The Affair” wrenched itself away from just about every previous story line in its Season 3 finale on Sunday, reaching a state of suspended narrative animation from which just about anything is possible for an already promised Season 4.A running theme in your comments has been: Why didn’t they shut it down after Season 2? I don’t think there’s really any need to argue that, given the obvious financial and emotional incentives for creators to keep any TV show alive if the network is willing. What I will say is that it’s probably a lot easier to pull it off, year after year, with a genre drama — one of the crime or superhero or legal or political shows that make up the great majority of hourlong series — where the artificial conventions already in place provide ready-made catalogs of cliffhangers and new plots. “The Affair,” as divorced from reality (see what I did there?) as you may find it, can’t just gin up a new election or supervillain or mystery. Well, it kinda, sorta tried to pull off a new mystery this season, with disastrous results.Back to the season finale. As if in a fairy tale, Noah and Juliette popped up in Paris, in bed together, memories of Brooklyn, Montauk and knives in the neck seemingly banished. A day in the city of light was seen from their contrasting perspectives, which played a bit like a “sophisticated” French romance (hers) and a moralistic American dramedy (his). It was set at Christmas, which kept making me think of “It’s a Wonderful Life,” though there are probably more apt parallels. (Definitely not Henry James, even if that’s what the writers, Sharr White and the showrunner Sarah Treem, had in mind.)Juliette’s chapter was focused on Etienne, the husband with Alzheimer’s whom she had left behind during her year in New Jersey. She was still avoiding him, spending the night with Noah in his hotel room. That made it all the more guilt-inducing when she came home to discover Etienne’s apparent miracle recovery, as he spoke lucidly about the offer from Livingston University (the one Juliette had accepted in his stead). But it was a mirage — within minutes he was confusing his doting daughter, Sabine, with Juliette, and confusing Juliette with his first wife, Brigitte, who had died (like Gabriel, and like Noah’s mother). Like so many other “Affair” characters he was clinging to a fantasy version of his life, but at least he had an excuse.Out and about in Paris, Juliette had an embarrassing encounter with two university colleagues who sized up Noah and inquired pointedly about Etienne. Then she had an even more disquieting meeting with her department head, during which she had to acknowledge that she had lied about Etienne’s condition and even signed forms and sent emails in his name. “This feels very close to fraud,” the extremely self-possessed administrator said, and you had to agree.Wandering the streets of Paris, Juliette went into the Panthéon and walked up to Foucault’s Pendulum, suspended from the more than 200-foot-high central dome. Standing beside this monument to rationality, which proved the earth’s rotation, she began to rotate herself, spinning in circles, symbolically out of control, giving in to the chaos (the irrationality!) of her situation. It was a little on the nose, but that’s the French way — obvious but artful. Resnais would have been proud.You know you’re in trouble, though, when Noah Solloway is your port in the storm. Juliette called him to meet up for an early dinner, where he demonstrated his newfound irrepressible happiness. She had pulled him back from the brink — all off camera, between episodes — and now he was writing like crazy. Then Juliette got a call from Sabine, and it was obvious right away what had happened: That crafty old Etienne had sandbagged Juliette twice in the same day, this time by dropping dead of a massive stroke while she was out with her lover.Juliette’s day would get even worse: back at home, Sabine blew up at her, telling her that everyone knew about her American boyfriend and that she had humiliated Etienne even in his death. It was the same abuse we’ve been hearing Noah and Alison take for three seasons, and perhaps it constitutes the bond Juliette feels with Noah. In any case, when he appeared at her door that night, she jumped him, despite his attempted demurral, and her chapter ended with them having sex in the hallway (while Sabine slept inside). Business as usual for Noah, though he looked surprised. In the presence of the Frenchwoman, he’s no longer the aggressor.The idea of Noah as an overgrown child continued into his own story line, when he visited a bookstore and opened a copy of “Peter Pan.” Reading the first line, “All children, except one, grow up,” he grimaced and closed it again. Then he bought a very serious old edition of “La Morte d’Arthur” as a gift for Juliette.There were some amusing differences in his and Juliette’s versions of events. In a bit of meta-trickery, the French dialogue in Noah’s chapter wasn’t subtitled (as it had been in Juliette’s). This emphasized his cluelessness during the conversation among Juliette and her colleagues, and my high-school French wasn’t sufficient either. I got the sense that Noah imagined the exchange as more humorous and sexual (and flattering to him). If there are French-speakers among you, please enlighten us.But the central action came in the scenes Juliette hadn’t witnessed, when — by dint of a typically egregious “Affair” coincidence, like the sudden death of Etienne — Noah discovered that Furkat was in town. Noah tracked down the happy artist, who was having a Paris exhibition, and Furkat greeted him jovially, the punch-up in Brooklyn forgotten. Jonathan Cake, as Furkat, gave the episode its few moments of humor, in the way he gushed: “I guess I’m having a little bit of a moment. At the moment. I’m just feeling really blessed.” Noah was feeling confused, having seen Furkat feeling up a young assistant — who wasn’t Whitney.Staking out Whitney at her hotel, Noah caught her running Furkat’s errands (she was actually holding his dry cleaning) but while she was clearly unhappy, she was having none of her father’s interference.At this point Noah got the call from Juliette, and we saw a much less happy and romantic iteration of their cafe meeting. An angry Juliette put down Noah by way of unloading on Etienne, explaining that he had philandered throughout their marriage and that he made Noah “look like an amateur” when it came to affairs. So not only was she with Noah when her husband died, she was bad-mouthing her husband, too.While Juliette ran home to deal with dead Etienne, Noah went to Furkat’s opening to deal with an angry Whitney. Watching through the gallery window, he saw his daughter humiliated — serving champagne while Furkat ignored her — and then assaulted, when an argument boiled over and Furkat slapped her. We were primed for Noah to pop a vein and take Furkat out (or try to), but Whitney begged him not to make a scene. In a sudden display of maturity and emotional control he listened to her, choosing to follow her as she ran away rather than go Neanderthal.Father and daughter had a before-sunrise scene by the Seine, during which Noah tried to convince Whitney that being hit wasn’t O.K. and Whitney, in her otherwise unconvincing defense of Furkat, pointed out that what Noah had done to Helen and his children was worse. It was epiphany time, as Noah stumblingly said, “I failed in the most important job I had, which was to protect you from men like — men like me.” That finally broke the ice, and Whitney admitted that she just wanted to go home to Brooklyn.Juliette needed her epiphany, too, so we got the nighttime rendezvous again from Noah’s perspective. No sex in the hallway this time, just a sober and not very interesting conversation in which Juliette took the blame for her treatment of Etienne and Noah told her that looking after someone who was dying was hard. I’m guessing that’s the last reference we get to his mother.In the morning, Juliette and Sabine met Whitney — with Sabine and Whitney looking like strong candidates for a Season 4 friendship — and father and daughter flew back to America. On the sidewalk in Brooklyn, the newly stable Noah looked up at his old home, saw Vic standing in front of the Christmas tree and calmly turned down Whitney’s request that he come inside. Father and daughter exchanged smiles, and then, in a real Capra touch, Martin — the angriest of them all — came out and invited Noah to go sledding in Central Park the next day. Helen appeared in the window and waved, but didn’t linger. Noah got back in the cab, and when the cabby said, “Where we going, buddy?,” Noah had no answer — the season ended on his puzzled face. So where are we going, buddies in the “Affair” writers’ room? You’ve made it clear that it’s Noah’s show. Will Juliette be there? Will Alison? You’ve got a couple months to figure it out.
Miranda Priestly is getting ready to sing.The pop star Elton John and the playwright Paul Rudnick have signed on to write a musical adaptation of “The Devil Wears Prada,” the producer Kevin McCollum said Thursday.The collaboration is a significant step for the project, which Mr. McCollum has been working on for two years. Mr. John has extensive Broadway experience, including as the composer for “The Lion King,” and he won a Tony Award in 2000 for writing the score for “Aida.” Mr. Rudnick has won praise as a comedic playwright (“The Most Fabulous Story Ever Told”), screenwriter and essayist.The musical will be adapted from the 2003 novel by Lauren Weisberger and the 2006 film, from 20th Century Fox, that starred Meryl Streep and Anne Hathaway. The story is about the hellish tenure of a young woman working as the personal assistant to Ms. Priestly, the imperious editor of a fashion magazine.The musical will be co-produced by Mr. McCollum (“Rent,” “Avenue Q,” “Something Rotten!”), Fox Stage Productions (the theatrical division of 20th Century Fox Film) and Rocket Entertainment (a company run by David Furnish, Mr. John’s husband). The producers did not announce a timeline for the project, but said it was being developed for Broadway.
For the first time since 1994, Gambia has a new leader. Adama Barrow, who set foot inside the country on Thursday for the first time as the country’s president, has taken power after a tumultuous transition in which the former president, Yahya Jammeh, refused to step down.Mr. Jammeh’s oppressive rule prompted thousands of Gambians to flee the country. As the new president takes office, we asked readers in Gambia about their hopes and fears for their nation. We heard from those still in the country as well as many Gambians who had moved abroad, with some planning to return.“This feels like being born again,” wrote Omar Njie, a 28-year-old Gambian living in Turkey.The responses were optimistic — and specific. Readers pointed to the need for swift limits on power to prevent another leader who could rule for 22 years. They yearned for free speech. And they emphasized the need to bolster the frayed economy and end corruption.Responses have been edited and condensed.“The vast majority of my people have left the Gambia because of the culture of intimidation that Jammeh created. There was no point having a successful business because he would crush it. There was no point aspiring to have a dynamic career because he had limited all opportunities for professional advancement. Now, I believe many of my family will return because of the spirit of hope — of possibility — in the air.”— Akinyi Ochieng, 23, a Gambian-American writer and student in London. Twitter: @kikiochieng.“I stayed away because of injustice, favoritism and tribalism. I hope to return some day.”— Lamin Bojang, 57, Silver Spring, Md.“Ever since the election of Barrow, my heart has been tugging at me to return and to be able to help my homeland grow. I would love to help usher in a new era in Gambia and help the children have brighter futures. The biggest factor that could influence my decision would be safety concerns. Truly look forward to being able to go home for the 1st time in 27 years.”— Mbye Njie, 35, a technology executive in Atlanta. Twitter: @mnjie. Snapchat: @gambianchampion.“I believe this government will avail me the rights that Jammeh denied every Gambian for 22 years. Freedom of speech, freedom from fear of being fired unlawfully from your job and fear of a relative getting arrested.”— Ebrima A. Bah, 32, a public relations officer at Gambia Maritime Administration in Latriya, Gambia. Twitter: @Ebrima84ABAH.“Term limits will not only ensure we don’t have another Yahya Jammeh with a 22-year rule, but the practice will also deter unnecessary military takeovers, an undemocratic act that has always bedeviled the African continent.”— Nanama Keita, 31, a specialist in the U.S. Army in New York. Twitter: @nanamakeita.“I think one of the fundamental flaws of the previous regime was its disregard for constitutionalism and the tenets of democracy, which ultimately enthroned a dictatorship that we had to endure for 22 years. I am hoping that this new regime take steps to ensure that the factors that created the dictatorship in the first place do not fester.”— Abdulrahman Bah, 33, who practiced law in Gambia before moving to Birmingham, England.“The political situation in the Gambia is free of tyranny, but the economy has been destroyed. Gambia needs capital to avoid a financial crash. People are free but without a strong economy.”— Essa Bokarr Sey, 53, a former ambassador in Louisville, Ky.“This feels like being born again, and the feeling of patriotism is coming back again. There were literally no opportunities to make it in the country unless you had ties with the government. Now that is out of the way, we would like to see reforms, especially education, health and infrastructure, job creation and, of course, firstly a newly drafted constitution.”— Omar Njie, 28, Turkey.“I hope he implements teaching students the Gambian Constitution, as it will always pay in the future. Gambians are promised free speech, assembly, to protest, etc., but they do not know this, as it was suppressed under the previous government. Example is the U.S.: Some people do not know their state governors, district congressmen/women, vice president of the U.S. or the other branches exist, but they know they have the right to free speech, press, assembly, etc.”— Lamin Sawo, 29, an intelligence analyst in Dayton, Ohio.“My first point is for the new administration to change the Islamic Republic to just the Republic of the Gambia as the country is built on diversity of religion culture and tribe as well.”— Abdoulie Jawo, 25, Bakoteh, Gambia. Twitter: @abdoulie_jawo.“Socially, the last regime destroyed the very ‘sacred’ fabric of the Gambian social contract and that is empathy and trust. Gambians cared for and trusted each other in a way that led us to claim that our ‘teranga’ (hospitality) was unparalleled around the world. Due to the fear and mistrust that Jammeh’s brutal regime caused, this unique trait was almost completely lost.”— Maudo Jallow, 22, a student in London. Twitter: @mansamusa94.“The United States, indeed the entire rest of world, must support the transition in Gambia. Countries not just in Africa, but around the globe, need to see the positive benefits of a change from authoritarian to democratic rule that institutes a legitimate government and respects human rights. It must be clear to all that such a government delivers not just abstract principles, but real concrete benefits. Foreign support and assistance can help that happen.”— Ousman Njie, 47, the head of Catholic Relief Services’ Gambia office in Banjul.
Hidden in homes across Iraq are gifts and mementos given to Iraqis by American friends. Medallions. Certificates. Toys. Guns. Letters. Countless photographs.“One of my best memories was that there was an American officer who used to remember the birthdays of my three children and he used to bring them gifts,” said Yasir Khaleel, who lives in Baquba, in eastern Iraq, and used to work as a translator for American troops.But he has another memory, too, equally poignant.“My worst memory was the killing of my nephew, who was just a kid, who had been shot by an American patrol,” Mr. Khaleel recalled, evoking the close but painful personal relationships that have developed over the recent history between the two countries.Now, with the inauguration of President Trump, and particularly after his plan to bar citizens of Iraq from visiting the United States, Iraqis are asking: Will this new chapter in this long story be one of betrayals and insults?For more than a quarter-century, since the first Persian Gulf war in 1991, the United States military has been involved in Iraq. Tens of thousands of Iraqis signed up to help the American cause, and their own, by working to achieve democracy and stability in a country that had never experienced either.Through the most difficult times — when sectarian violence was tearing the country apart, when revelations came of torture by Americans at the Abu Ghraib prison — there were always the personal interactions between Iraqis and Americans, nurtured against the backdrop of war.The day he took office, Mr. Trump became the fifth president in a row to bomb Iraq. He has also suggested that he would put more military resources into Iraq, where American forces are working closely with Iraqi troops in the battle to retake Mosul from Islamic State militants, to make good on his promise to eradicate the group “from the face of the earth.”But in his first days, he also insulted Iraqis, saying that the United States should have taken their oil, and may do so yet. And, perhaps most painfully, he announced a new set of restrictions that would bar Iraqis from resettling in the United States, and even visiting, at least for a time.“At bottom, it sends the message that America sees Iraqis as untrustworthy,” Kenneth M. Pollack, a longtime Iraq analyst at the Brookings Institution, wrote in an email. “That they are not our partners. It reinforces Trump’s idea of taking their oil; that we don’t view them as allies but something much less than that.”Mr. Trump has explained his executive order as a way to keep America safe from terrorism, but officials and analysts say that it is likely to hinder his efforts to wipe out the Islamic State, also called ISIS or ISIL, given that the United States is leaning on the Iraqis to do most of the fighting.“It is going to alienate the whole of Iraq against the man, to say to all Iraqis, ‘You are not welcome in our country,’” said Mouwafak al-Rubaie, a member of Parliament and a former national security adviser in Iraq.The issue could also become a political liability for Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi, who has spoken optimistically about expanding cooperation between Iraq and the United States under Mr. Trump in the fight against ISIS. It will be difficult, Mr. Rubaie said, for Mr. Abadi to justify to the Iraqi public a close relationship with the United States when the country is closing the door on Iraqis.“This is going to be a huge embarrassment for the prime minister,” Mr. Rubaie said.On Monday, Iraq’s Parliament voted to ask the government to respond by barring Americans from the country. It was unclear whether the government would do so, and in a statement issued on Monday the Foreign Ministry was more cautious, asking that the United States reconsider the policy.Other leaders, including the Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr, and the spokesman for Iraq’s paramilitary units that have been fighting the Islamic State, said that Americans should be barred from Iraq.Mr. Abadi’s spokesman took a more measured approach, saying that the executive order should not affect security cooperation between the countries.Henri J. Barkey, the director of the Middle East Program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, said that the barring of Iraqis from the United States would work against American efforts to stabilize Iraq once the Islamic State was defeated.“When you are trying to rebuild Iraq, it is important to get Iraqis to study in the United States, to get training,” Mr. Barkey said.He gave the example of the American University of Iraq, Sulaimani, in Iraqi Kurdistan, which receives American funding and on whose board he sits. “Kurdish-Iraqi academics will have a very hard time to visit the United States, which defeats the purpose of setting up these institutions,” Mr. Barkey said.Mr. Trump’s new restrictions were particularly heart-rending for the thousands of Iraqis who had worked closely with American troops and made many friends among the Americans. There was no guarantee, but signing up to join the American cause came with an implicit promise: a chance at a new life in the United States, through a special immigration program that Mr. Trump seems intent on ending.“You have let us down, Trump, and wasted all our hopes and future,” said Ali Salam, a former military translator. He said he once thought of America as “the land of dreams.”Two Iraqis, including one who had worked as an interpreter for the United States Army, were detained on Saturday at Kennedy International Airport in New York. With the intervention of lawyers, the former interpreter was released on Saturday afternoon and the other Iraqi was released later that evening.Anas Nasir, who worked for an American security contractor in Baghdad, said that the new restrictions had shattered his hopes. His job brought a steady paycheck, but, facing many death threats, he quit and applied for asylum in the United States. His dream was a simple one: to open a restaurant in Los Angeles serving Iraqi food.“But now Mr. Trump came to destroy this last dream,” said Mr. Nasir, 30. “I always dreamed of raising my son away from car bombs and sectarian tensions, and America was the ideal place.”Facing long waits for an answer to their applications, Iraqis have spent hours learning English and researching life in the United States.“I was waiting for the day when I would leave Iraq and start over with a new life, free of problems and fear and sadness, and where I can protect the lives of my wife and daughters,” said Haider al-Kadhimi, who has worked for an American news outlet and who applied for resettlement in the United States five years ago after being threatened by a militia. He said he hoped to move to Utah, a state he had learned about on the internet.“Unfortunately, Trump has decided to not welcome us and has left us as easy prey for those who consider America as an enemy and occupant in Iraq,” he added.Strict American immigration procedures had already divided many Iraqi families, as some members were approved for entry while others were left waiting, or denied. For a long time Iraqis hoped the separation was temporary, but now many are fearful that it will be permanent.Namo Abdulla, a Kurdish journalist who moved to the United States a few years ago but recently returned to marry, worries that his new wife, who has been waiting for months for a visa to the United States, will be barred from joining him.Mr. Abdulla wrote on his Facebook page on Tuesday: “Thank you, Mr. Trump, for closing your country’s borders on the most vulnerable people. My wife has been waiting for her visa to be issued for months. Please don’t say this is going to impact my wife. Please don’t say this is going to destroy my life.”
