Note: This documentary short film was nominated for a 2017 Academy Award.When I returned home to Greece last fall to make a film about the refugee crisis, I discovered a situation I had never imagined possible. The turquoise sea that surrounds the beautiful Greek island of Lesbos, just 4.1 miles from the Turkish coast, is these days a deadly gantlet, choked with terrified adults and small children on flimsy, dangerous boats. I had never seen people escaping war before, and neither had the island’s residents. I couldn’t believe there was no support for these families to safely escape whatever conflict had caused them to flee. The scene was haunting.Regardless of the hardship Greeks have endured from the financial crisis, for a long time my home country has by and large been a peaceful, safe and easy place to live. But now Greece is facing a new crisis, one that threatens to undo years of stability, as we struggle to absorb the thousands of desperate migrants who pour across our borders every day. A peak of nearly 5,000 entered Greece each day last year, mainly fleeing conflicts in the Middle East.The Greek Coast Guard, especially when I was there, has been completely unprepared to deal with the constant flow of rescues necessary to save refugees from drowning as they attempt to cross to Europe from Turkey. When I was there filming, Lesbos had about 40 local coast guard officers, who before the refugee crisis generally spent their time conducting routine border patrols. Most didn’t have CPR training. Their vessels didn’t have thermal cameras or any equipment necessary for tremendous emergencies.Suddenly, the crew was charged with keeping the small bit of water they patrolled from becoming a mass grave. Each day, thousands of refugees crossed the water on tiny, dangerous inflatable rafts. Most of the passengers, sometimes including whoever was operating the boat, had never seen the sea. Often a motor would stall and passengers would be stranded for hours, floating tenuously on a cold, volatile sea. Or the bottom of a dinghy would simply tear away and all the passengers would be cast into the water. The coast guard felt completely abandoned, they told me, as if the world had left them to handle a huge humanitarian crisis — or allow thousands to drown offshore.I followed a coast guard captain for three weeks as he pulled family after family, child after child, from the ocean and saved their lives. All the ones in this film were shot on a single day, October 28, 2015. Two additional rescues happened that same day but were not included.The problem is far from over. Many of the refugees come from Syria, where Russia is intensifying bombings that are killing thousands of civilians and devastating Syrian cities. The United States is planning to respond. According to the Greek Coast Guard, thousands of families with children are lining up along Turkish shores to make the unsafe crossing to Greece.In making this film, I was struck by the fine lines that separate us, the moments when our paths cross fleetingly, and we look at one another for the first time and sometimes for the last. This film shows that crucial moment between life and death, where regardless of political beliefs, fears or preparation, some people will go beyond themselves to save a stranger.And it raises questions about our collective responsibility — the choices we all make for ourselves, and for others. We don’t all confront the refugee crisis with the same immediacy as the coast guard captain portrayed here. But as our world becomes more interconnected, and more violent, we do all face a choice — would we act as he does, to save the life of stranger? Or would we turn away?
Dear America’s Business Leaders:I am writing you today because it will soon become clear that you’re going to need to do a job that you’ve never thought of doing before: saving the country from a leader with a truly distorted view of how the world works and the role America should play in it.There is no Republican Party today to restrain President Trump’s worst instincts. Save for a few courageous senators, the G.O.P. has melted into spinelessness. The mainstream media can expose misbehavior, but can’t veto legislation. The Democrats control no levers of power. And Jared Kushner couldn’t even stop the Steve Bannon-led White House from issuing a Holocaust Remembrance Day decree that deliberately omitted any reference to Jews.The only group whom Trump has some respect for, who can get access to him and who can maybe counter the malign ideological instincts of Bannon & Company are the likes of Bill Gates, Tim Cook, Jeff Immelt, Mark Zuckerberg, Eric Schmidt, Jamie Dimon, Mike Bloomberg, Elon Musk, Indra Nooyi, Ginni Rometty, Dennis Muilenburg and Doug McMillon.Sure, if Trump executes on his promises for deregulation, infrastructure and tax reform, your companies will enjoy a quick sugar high. But if you listen to what Trump and Bannon are saying, their vision of America and the world is unlike anything you business leaders have encountered before.They are playing with, and happy to dispense with, big systems — like Nafta, the World Trade Organization and the European Union — that drive so much of the global economy. They believe things that are provably wrong — that the majority of job loss in America is from Mexicans and Chinese, when in fact it’s from microchips and computers, i.e., improved productivity.Yes, some things are true even if Trump believes them: Islam does have problems with gender and religious pluralism, and integration in Western societies. Ignoring that is reckless.But some things are true even if liberals believe them: that America has integrated Muslims better than any European country, because we are a melting pot. And making Muslims part of our community at home and our alliances abroad — rather than treating them as permanent aliens — has made us safer since 9/11. Ignoring that is dangerous.And while we’re talking dangerous, why are there record numbers of migrants flooding out of sub-Saharan Africa, the Mideast and Central America, trying to get into Europe and America? Two big reasons are droughts and population explosions. And what do Trump and Bannon propose? Ignoring climate change and halting U.S. government help with family planning in the developing world.Nothing is connected in their world. Everything is just a box to check or wall to build.The Washington Post on Monday quoted Bannon as saying that he and Jeff Sessions were at the center of Trump’s “pro-America movement” that was “poorly understood by cosmopolitan elites in the media. … What we are witnessing now is the birth of a new political order, and the more frantic a handful of media elites become, the more powerful that new political order becomes itself.”When someone tells you he is giving birth to a “new political order” in America, be afraid. Yes, the acceleration in technology and globalization has particularly benefited higher-skilled knowledge workers in the West and lower-skilled rising middle classes in Asia. And, yes, it did squeeze middle-skilled workers in the West, who were more vulnerable to outsourcing, algorithms and automation. More needs to be done to help them.If Trump is simply out to negotiate better trade deals for America and get our allies to share the burdens of defending the free world more equitably, God bless him. That can be a win for our workers.But I fear that Bannon is manipulating Trump into a more messianic mission — that his “new political order” is not just about jobs, but culture, an attempt to recreate an America of the 1950s: a country dominated by white Christians, not “cosmopolitans”; where no one spoke Spanish at the grocery store; where America’s biggest C.E.O.s weren’t named Satya or Sundar; where every worker could have a high-wage middle-skilled job; and where trade walls and the slow pace of automation meant you didn’t have to be a lifelong learner.If that’s where Trump is going, it will take us to a dark place. The way we lift American workers is not by building higher walls, but rather stronger communities — where business, philanthropies, the local school system and local government forge adaptive coalitions to enable every worker to engage in lifelong learning and every company to access global markets and every town to attract the smart risk-takers who start companies.That is exactly what is happening in America’s best communities, and the job of government is to scale it, and the job of big business is to defend it. So don’t be fooled by a Trump sugar high; your businesses will thrive only if America is the country that prepares itself and its workers to live in a world without walls, not one that goes around erecting them.This is the “new political order” we need and that you must defend. You ignore this mission at your — and our — peril.
The detective work we do in my lab involves genes and cancer cells, not crimes. Or so I thought, until several years ago, when one of my graduate students at the University of Michigan emailed me to say that her research had been sabotaged.“I went to transfect cells today and found that there were massive amounts of alcohol in my media,” she wrote. “Does someone have a grudge against me?”When I sniffed one of the flasks that were used to feed her cells, I found she was right: It reeked of alcohol, enough to kill the cells. I asked if she suspected anyone. She said no.We have all read about incidents of scientific misconduct; in recent years, a number of manuscripts based on fake research have been retracted. But they usually involved scientists who cut corners or fabricated data, not deliberate sabotage. The poisoned flasks were a first for me. Falsified data is a crime against scientific truth. This was personal.I turned to my colleagues to ask how to respond, and to my surprise, they all said the same thing: my student, Heather Ames, was probably sabotaging herself.Their reasoning? She wanted an excuse for why things weren’t working in her experiments. Competition and the pressure to get results quickly is ever-present in the world of biomedical research, so it’s not out of the question that a young scientist might succumb to the stress.Heather was working to understand how a protein called HIP1 alters signals within cancer cells in a way that promotes their survival and proliferation. If we could understand how the protein works, we might be able to treat cancer by fixing the corrupted signaling. The idea sounded good, but testing it was not for the faint of heart.I hadn’t considered the possibility that Heather was ruining her own experiments, but it made some sense. After all, I knew from Alfred Hitchcock and TV mysteries that the people closest to a victim are usually the main suspects.The next morning I told Heather that allegations of sabotage were serious, and that we could pretend we’d never had the conversation, if that’s what she wanted. I was hopeful she’d say yes. Instead, she persisted. So I did the same.I got in touch with the authorities in the university. The experts in charge of oversight were concerned and compassionate, but they also felt that Heather was a possible culprit. There was nothing in her behavior that suggested anything but a sterling character and devotion to science. But, once again, the suggestion made me fear it was true.The tampering with Heather’s work continued and we ultimately asked the police to get involved. This was not a simple case of vandalism, I told them, but tampering with cancer research in which substantial resources had been invested. They dispatched a detective who helped me construct a detailed list of suspects. We started by identifying those who had access to the lab (students, staff), then narrowed it down to people who might have a grudge against Heather. We also looked at people who might hold a grudge against me — anyone I’d offended or let go in the past. But in the end, he too felt that Heather was the prime suspect.So now what? The only thing left to do was install hidden cameras.In April 2010, a couple of months after Heather’s email, the hidden cameras revealed the culprit: a postdoctoral fellow named Vipul Bhrigu, who, confronted with the video, confessed that he had sprayed alcohol into a cell culture medium in the refrigerator. We were in shock. Dr. Bhrigu was the most cooperative, passionate and friendly member of my lab. He’d been at the bottom of our suspect list.After being taken to the police station, he and the detective returned to my office. “I am sorry,” he told me. “I have disgraced myself, hurt you, hurt the lab and know that you will never forgive me. I felt terrible every time I did this and almost hoped there was a camera. I thought Heather was so smart and I did it to slow her down. It was because of my internal pressure.”Were we dealing with a sociopath, or was he being honest?Obviously we can’t tolerate fraud, but the culture of scientific research may deserve some blame. There is more pressure than ever for researchers to generate huge amounts of data to publish high-impact papers. Those who publish less get less funding. We need a culture change. If we want to protect the integrity of our research, we need to protect the sanity of our researchers. Besides, good science happens when there is freedom to make mistakes, to learn from those mistakes, to discover the unexpected. Unrelenting pressure makes diamonds, not discoveries.Dr. Bhrigu was convicted of a misdemeanor. The judge sentenced him to a psychological evaluation, to probation and to pay $30,000 in restitution to the University of Michigan. While on probation, he moved back home to India. I did, however, hear from the prosecution a few years later that he’d finished his probation after all and paid his fine in full.Heather — Dr. Ames, now — completed her Ph.D. with flying colors. She is a top-notch pathologist and cancer biologist at Johns Hopkins University. She studies brain cancer. Nothing gets in her way.In the aftermath of our investigation, many people assumed that I would be embarrassed that something like this had taken place in my lab. But when I talked about the episode and the lessons we learned, other researchers came forward with their own tales of sabotage, fraud or plagiarism. Many regretted that they had not solved their cases or prosecuted those responsible, or discussed the events with the wider community.I was proud that we’d gotten to the bottom of it, and I appreciated the way our crime drama had mirrored the scientific method itself. Only after gathering real evidence did we uncover the truth. One good experiment (videotaping the event) was worth more than all the guesses — all of which turned out to be wrong.We need to test what we believe, not trust it. This axiom is especially important in a “post-truth world” where we must work even harder to question our assumptions, whether in science, medicine, justice or any other field of problem solving.
Organizations, particularly large ones, have a tendency to engage in group think. They need to make an extra effort to listen to dissenting views to ensure that the organization is pursuing the right goals.The Trump administration’s new immigration policy would have benefited from a review and comment period to solicit dissenting views before a final decision. Then they might have heard from experts like Gen. John Allen and Michael O’Hanlon about the devastating consequences of the policy in the fight against the Islamic State, particularly in Iraq and Syria, and hopefully would have modified the policy accordingly.Instead, President Trump’s inner circle is confronted with a wave of dissent, including the reported intention of scores of Foreign Service officers to protest the new policy through the State Department’s official “dissent channel.” This presents the administration and the entire government with the question of how to balance the need for discipline for organizations to function effectively with the importance of open debate in determining the organization’s goals.In the military, discipline that guarantees orders will be followed can also protect dissent, because there is a clear line between executing a lawful order and expressing an opinion about it.But diplomats are in a more awkward position than soldiers because so much of their job involves explaining and defending government policy. The State Department created its dissent channel in 1971 as a response to concerns that contrary opinions were suppressed or ignored during the Vietnam War. It provides American diplomats with a means to provide written submissions expressing disagreement with policies. Those submissions are supposed to be circulated among the most senior officials in the department, and the writers are supposed to be protected from retaliation.In 1992 a group of Foreign Service officers used the dissent channel to protest United States inaction in the face of atrocities in Bosnia. In early 2003, Ann Wright, then the chargé d’affaires in Mongolia, wrote a dissent channel message objecting to a prospective invasion of Iraq. And just last June, some 50 Foreign Service officers used it to protest United States inaction in Syria.Significantly, when a draft of the dissent channel cable objecting to President Obama’s Syria policy leaked to The New York Times last summer, William Harrop, a distinguished career ambassador who strongly believes in the dissent channel, condemned the leak, saying that the Foreign Service officers’ “oath of office is to protect and defend the Constitution, but they are not free to debate publicly with their president.” He added, “If they wanted to go public they should have resigned.”Another diplomat, Chas Freeman, said at the time that “the channel can only work if it is ‘internal use only,’ i.e., it does not become part of the political diatribe or embarrass the administration.”Diplomats confronted with an immigration policy that they believe is harmful to national interests should not abuse their government positions to undermine or sabotage the policy, no matter how strongly they feel about it. They do have three courses they can follow in good conscience:They can seek reassignment to a position that is not affected by the policy, as John Negroponte did in leaving the White House and accepting reassignment to Ecuador after objecting to what he considered a betrayal of South Vietnam; they can continue working to mitigate the effects of a policy they object to, as Ryan Crocker did with extraordinary effectiveness in Iraq; or they can resign and go public with their objections as the Bosnia dissenters did and as Ann Wright did over Iraq and Ambassador Robert Ford did over Syria.Whether they also have a First Amendment right to go public with their opposition while still serving in official positions is a question that lawyers can no doubt debate for a very long time.From my own experience I would say that if you want to change a policy, going public should be a last resort. You are much more likely to be listened to, even if you are a very senior official, if you make your concerns known privately.Unfortunately there is still no confirmed secretary of state to listen to the dissent channel signers, nor is there any evidence that the executive order reflected the views of Homeland Security Secretary John Kelly or Defense Secretary James Mattis. However the Trump administration decides to respond to these dissenting diplomats, I hope it does not do so in a way that stifles debate.
So this is where we are, just under two weeks into the presidency of a man who has never had to report to a boss or a board, who likes to imagine he gives all the orders, who fires or sues those who complain:An acting attorney general, Sally Yates, fired and accused of betrayal because she told her Justice Department subordinates not to defend President Trump’s order closing the nation’s borders to more than 200 million legitimate foreign travelers, because it targets Muslims.A State Department where more than 1,000 career employees have publicly and lawfully dissented from that order, which they fear will weaken, not strengthen, the nation’s defenses against would-be terrorists.A Pentagon that thinks the order will needlessly alienate vital allies in conflict zones like Iraq where Americans and Iraqi Muslims are together resisting ISIS.And all across the government, in the Environmental Protection Agency, the Food and Drug Administration and even the Interior Department, a universe of federal employees rattled by directives on regulations and hiring, shaken by rumors of cuts in basic science involving energy, health and climate change, and wondering where the next edict will come from.And of course a press secretary, Sean Spicer, with a belligerent message not just for the State Department dissenters but for any federal employee worried about Mr. Trump’s rule by decree: Get with the program or get lost.Mr. Trump’s supporters thrill to see him pumping out executive orders and memorandums aimed at turning his campaign pledges into action — building a wall, killing trade deals, gutting Obamacare and barring Muslim refugees. Yet in doing so he has not only flouted traditional policy-making machinery but, in some cases, opened the way for legal challenges.He has issued more than a dozen orders and memorandums, often without significant review by Congress or federal lawyers, and always with little regard for the agencies responsible for overseeing the outcome. None of the relevant departments and agencies — State, Homeland Security, Defense, Immigration and Customs Enforcement — were asked to weigh in on creation of the Muslim ban, which was written largely by Stephen Bannon, late of Breitbart News, and Stephen Miller, a former aide to Senator Jeff Sessions, Mr. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, whose role during the campaign was whipping up the xenophobia at rallies before Mr. Trump took the stage. Indeed, nobody in the White House thought to call most of these officials until Mr. Trump was signing the order on television.“This gang shoots, and then they look around to see what they’ve hit,” said a former senior government executive who’s been fielding agency complaints. “There’s a danger not just of unintended consequences, but of significantly dangerous consequences.”In similar fashion, the executive order inviting the Canadian company TransCanada to reapply for a permit to build the Keystone XL pipeline, which President Barack Obama had killed, came without consultation with the State Department, which worked on the issue for years. The order on dismantling Obamacare rattled congressional Republicans, who were recorded in a closed-door retreat last week arguing over the re-election perils of stripping Americans’ health benefits without a replacement. An order freezing federal government hiring sought no input from federal agencies on how such a freeze would affect services and no guidance as to whether its exemption for military personnel included veterans, who make up nearly one-third of the civilian work force.When he isn’t beating up on the press, Mr. Spicer denigrates civil servants as “career bureaucrats,” and in the case of the State Department dissenters, invites them to “question whether or not they should continue” in their jobs, suggesting disloyalty to the official line. Yet what these employees are doing has an honorable history, dating back to the Vietnam War, when the “dissent channel” was established with the express purpose of encouraging unorthodox thinking. It has been used in recent years to voice disagreements over policies in Bosnia and Syria.During Ms. Yates’s Senate confirmation in 2015, Senator Sessions asked her, “If the views a president wants to execute are unlawful, should the attorney general or deputy attorney general say no?” Ms. Yates replied, “Senator, I believe the attorney general or deputy attorney general has an obligation to follow the law and the Constitution.” She did that, and Mr. Trump made her pay for it.
Last fall, I had to take the car keys away from an elderly relative who lives alone. This intervention should have happened much earlier, but when the day came it was one of the more emotionally wrenching things I’ve ever done. “Don’t take my car away,” he pleaded. “Without my car I don’t have a life.”The fear he expressed is one shared by many older Americans, who, overwhelmingly, live in places where car travel is a necessity. And that number is skyrocketing: The population aged 65 and over is expected to grow to 79 million from 48 million in the next 20 years, and by 2035, one in three American households will be headed by someone 65 or older (and 9.3 million of those will be one-person households like my relative’s). A  report just out from the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard, “Projects and Implications for a Growing Population: Older Households 2015-2035 Housing,” reveals that this demographic shift will increase the need for affordable, safe housing that is well connected to services way beyond what current supply can meet.My now-car-free relative is not the sort to sign up for one of those 55-plus communities promising sunshine, gardens and golf. Retirement was an eventuality that inspired in him not relief but dread. Fiercely independent, an old-school intellectual and, frankly, a bit of a loner, he insists on remaining in his suburban home (“I will die in this house” typically ends any conversation in which I suggest a move) — even if that home is slowly becoming a dangerous place for him to be in.A new study from the Urban Land Institute’s Terwilliger Center for Housing, a nonprofit research group, shows that suburban areas surrounding the 50 largest metropolitan areas in the United States make up 79 percent of the population of those areas but accounted for 91 percent of population growth over the past 15 years (and three-quarters of people age 25 to 34 in these metro areas live in suburbs).But suburban homes were originally designed, and for the most part still are, for young families — and for drivers. They are typically surrounded by other single-family houses. Lacking a fitter partner or a network of helpful neighbors and caring family members, older residents can end up feeling isolated, unable to do basic errands or keep up their property. Further, most suburbs are zoned to prevent any non-single-family housing from being built, whether multiunit projects or the seemingly benign granny flat.We’ve got to change this paradigm.Before she died, way too young, of breast cancer at 60, my mother used to say to me, only half-joking, “You promise you’re not going to put your mother in a home, are you?” She had vivid memories of her grandmother’s generally miserable experience at an old-age home.Decades later, some progress has been made in rethinking these facilities (and they tend to be called “communities” now rather than “the home”), yet the unease about where one will end up as one ages is not at all unfounded. Better housing for older people exists at the lowest and the highest ends of the economic spectrum — for those who can afford luxury options and those who qualify for aid.Really good options are limited, particularly for the middle class. A colleague of mine, bemoaning the lack of attention and care at his father’s pricey assisted-living center, put it this way: “It’s not like they’re worrying about cultivating repeat customers.”Thoughtfully designed housing for older adults is not being created on a scale commensurate with the growing need. It’s not a market many architects or developers have embraced. Conversely, a disproportionate amount of attention has been focused on the presumed desires of millennials. We hear all the time that it’s that group that craves walkability, good transit and everything-at-their-doorstep amenities — and that only cities can provide it.But what if these offerings weren’t exclusively urban? What if suburban communities could provide some of them? And what if more communities weren’t so keyed into specific demographics, maybe even aiming instead to serve multiple generations? Professionals are starting to pay attention, with some suggesting that the housing industry ditch the term “senior” altogether.NORCs — naturally occurring retirement communities — are found most often in dense and vibrant cities like New York, and demonstrate how well cities can work for older people. But less than a quarter of older adults live in high-density areas, so demand is likely to increase for new housing options within existing suburbs and rural communities. While it wouldn’t be impossible for suburbs to morph into NORCs, it wouldn’t be easy. Zoning precludes a lot of the mixed-use (stores, restaurants, multifamily housing) that is required, as does Nimbyism (the “not in my backyard” syndrome). But we already have many of the tools for incremental transformation.The social safety net that helped provide so much of what we’re talking about here has evaporated; it has to re-emerge in new ways. As I’ve observed over the years when writing about topics from communes to urban agriculture, much of this is so old-fashioned as to seem innovative.New York University recently announced an initiative that matches students in need of housing with older people who have rooms to spare. Programs like Marin Villages, in Northern California, put together networks of volunteers to organize activities, cultivate community and supply rides and other services to seniors, though it does not offer housing.Co-housing, if it can shed its 1960s hippie commune associations, which doesn’t square with how these communities operate today, is another path toward providing community and care for all ages. The homebuilder Lennar is offering houses with a range of floor plans to accommodate varied family stages and needs. De-stigmatizing housing for older people through good design, as architects like David Baker and Anne Fougeron are doing in California, is also heartening, as is Perkins Eastman’s recently released report on biophilic design in senior housing (in non-architect-speak, integrating nature into architecture).Technology can be part of the solution, though not without some tweaks. I’ve been engaged in a slow-moving campaign to convince my newly nondriving relative of the safety, convenience and economic savings of using the car services Lyft and Uber, but the transition isn’t an easy one. Summoning these cars is a no-brainer for heavy users of smartphones, but for older people with declining vision and motor skills, it’s a puzzle. (Why is it nearly impossible to telephone one of these services? It shouldn’t be.)On-demand delivery services (meals, groceries, medicine) can also help bridge the gap, with the caveat that receiving everything at your doorstep can increase isolation (that goes for all ages). Expect a slew of “smart” products to hit the marketplace soon, some actually smart (some probably really stupid) that include “time to take your medication” notification systems, wearables that deploy airbags in case of a fall or aid in walking and sitting.The difficulties inside the home are significant, and homes themselves must evolve and adapt as their residents age. And again, there are existing fixes: universal design elements such as step-free entrances, single-floor living, under-counter appliances, and halls and doorways that accommodate wheelchairs. Many of these could be standard, yet, typically, they’re renovations done after the need for them arises.Every day for the next 19 years, 10,000 people will reach age 65. That companies aren’t scrambling to exploit this market is not only unfortunate for their bottom line, but almost certainly treacherous, eventually, for all of us.
To the Editor:Re “Reince Priebus Defends Holocaust Statement That Failed to Mention Jews” (nytimes.com, Jan. 30):Of all of President Trump’s actions during his first 10 days in office, among the most egregious was the deliberate omission of Jews from his statement for International Holocaust Remembrance Day.Taking away the intent of the Holocaust may not be the classic form of Holocaust denial, but it is a form of denial nonetheless. This decision is the clearest indication that no historical fact is too big for the Trump administration to try to erase from public consciousness.And most important, it shows that this administration is controlled by people who know truth from fiction, but not right from wrong.MITCHELL TURKERPortland, Ore.
Talk is growing about a March for Science on Washington, similar to the Women’s March the day after President Trump’s inauguration. It is a terrible idea.Among scientists, understandably, there is growing fear that fact-based decision making is losing its seat at the policy-making table. There’s also overwhelming frustration with the politicization of science by climate change skeptics and others who see it as threatening to their interests or beliefs.But trying to recreate the pointedly political Women’s March will serve only to reinforce the narrative from skeptical conservatives that scientists are an interest group and politicize their data, research and findings for their own ends.I am a coastal geologist. I direct a center where our mission is to conduct scientific research and then communicate that science to elected officials, regulators, even private entities and the public. There is no question that the proposed March for Science will make my job more difficult and increase polarization.Please understand, I don’t shy away from openly presenting the facts about the changing climate and rising seas. But I’ve learned that doing so is not without risk.In 2010, I was a co-author of a report for North Carolina’s Coastal Resources Commission that said sea levels along the state’s coastline could rise by as much as 39 inches by the end of the century. That conclusion was based on the best peer-reviewed science and was intended to help policy makers plan for the future.But it alarmed real estate and other economic development interests, which quickly attacked the report. The coastal commission ignored it. The authors, myself included, were widely slandered. And the Legislature passed a law that barred state and local agencies from developing regulations or planning documents anticipating a rise in sea level. “I think this is a brilliant solution,” the comedian Stephen Colbert said at the time. “If your science gives you a result that you don’t like, pass a law saying the result is illegal. Problem solved.”You might think that the lesson I learned from that experience was to distrust the political establishment. No. What I learned was that most of those attacking our sea-level-rise projections had never met me, nor my co-authors. Not only that, most of the public had never met anyone they considered a scientist. They didn’t understand the careful, painstaking process we followed to reach our peer-reviewed conclusions. We were unknowns, “scientists” delivering bad news. We were easy marks for those who felt threatened by our findings.A march by scientists, while well intentioned, will serve only to trivialize and politicize the science we care so much about, turn scientists into another group caught up in the culture wars and further drive the wedge between scientists and a certain segment of the American electorate.Rather than marching on Washington and in other locations around the country, I suggest that my fellow scientists march into local civic groups, churches, schools, county fairs and, privately, into the offices of elected officials. Make contact with that part of America that doesn’t know any scientists. Put a face on the debate. Help them understand what we do, and how we do it. Give them your email, or better yet, your phone number.Al Gore, bless his heart (as we say in the South), was well intentioned when he made “An Inconvenient Truth” in 2006. But he did us no favors. So many of the conservative Southerners whom I speak to about climate change see it as a partisan issue largely because of that high-profile salvo fired by the former vice president.Scientists marching in opposition to a newly elected Republican president will only cement the divide. The solution here is not mass spectacle, but an increased effort to communicate directly with those who do not understand the degree to which the changing climate is already affecting their lives. We need storytellers, not marchers.Believe me, I understand the desire to impart to everyone how important science is to every sector of our economy, the health of our planet and the future of our families. But I don’t see how a march accomplishes any of that. If tens of thousands of us show up, it will simply increase the size of the echo chamber.
On his first full day in office, our new president harangued the National Park Service about more flattering inauguration photos and preened in front of a memorial to real American heroes, crowing about how often he’s been on the cover of Time magazine.Before his first full week was done, he temporarily barred refugees from entering the United States, halted immigration from several predominantly Muslim countries and decreed that Christians get preference over Muslims when we let outsiders in.I watch this and feel heartsick about America, whose most fundamental values and claim to moral leadership are at stake.Then I talk to my friend Maya Rao and her sisters and I feel just a little bit better. I feel pride and hope.They’re precisely the kind of Americans who feel so insulted and threatened by President Trump. They’re precisely the kind who make this country so special and fill me with such fierce love for it. It gave them a home and horizons they might not have found elsewhere. They treasure that enough to defend it.A week ago Saturday they woke in New Jersey at 3:30 a.m. for a 5:30 a.m. bus. Then they traveled for four hours, to Washington and the Women’s March.Maya, 41, had never done anything like this before. Neither had her older sister, Mythili Lahiri, 44, or her younger one, Meera Oliva, 39. No national marches. No street-corner demonstrations. No hoisting of signs. No chanting of chants.Until recently they thought it was enough to keep up with the news and cast their votes in accordance with their support of the Democratic Party. There didn’t seem to be time for anything more. They have demanding careers. They have three children each. They have husbands.An extra hour of sleep is a luxury. An extra two is a fantasy.Then: Trump. As women, they gasped at his sexism.As first-generation Indian-Americans, they shuddered at his quickness to demonize people of color with Asian, African or Latino ancestry.“I feel devastated,” Maya told me. “For me, the acceptance of diversity is one of the things that makes this country great. This election is destroying that. And that gets me into the street.”What we’ve seen from the White House in this opening stage of the Trump administration isn’t encouraging. Trump’s promised pivot to a presidential demeanor never happened, and apparently never will: It’s outside of his skill set. It’s alien to his psychology. He’s all ego and spleen, with only the loosest of tethers to truth.But we’re seeing something else — something sunnier — beyond the White House: an awakening in many Americans who were trusting, complacent or distracted before. That’s what the protests all around the country demonstrated, though whether they will translate into consequential action — and become an insurance policy against the damage Trump may do — isn’t clear. The three sisters are trying to figure that out.They’re scared. Mythili told me that as she watches Trump and the people around him reject science, construct alternate realities and try to silence anyone who balks at that, she worries that the very idea of America is in jeopardy.“We believe in freedom of expression,” she said, meaning Americans. “We believe in facts. We believe in transparency. And what he’s doing — it’s a slippery slope toward a country that I don’t recognize and a country that I don’t want to live in.”I’ve known Maya for more than five years, I had a long dinner with Mythili once and I’ve talked repeatedly with Meera on the phone. They’re ferociously smart, all three of them. They’re contagiously upbeat. Maya’s laugh is as long and loud as any I’ve heard. I crave, relish and envy it.They grew up first in Texas, which Mythili recalled as a “brutal time.” No one at her school looked like her. No one shared her family’s traditions — its vegetarianism, for example. Once, for a lesson on nutrition, she and her classmates were told to keep a food diary. Her teacher looked at hers and, in front of the other kids, gasped, “You didn’t eat any meat?” Then she opined that Mythili’s parents were leaving her malnourished.Later they moved to the suburbs of New York. Their mother died when they were still young. Their father pushed them to excel, wanting every opportunity for them. For college, Mythili went to Barnard and both Maya and Meera to Brown.Mythili teaches at a private school in central New Jersey. Maya, a physician, treats economically disadvantaged patients at a Manhattan hospital. Meera is the head of marketing for a start-up near her home in the Boston suburbs.They pay taxes at the high rate of prosperous two-income couples like theirs. They instill an ethos of achievement in their sons and daughters. They contribute to this country. They flatter it.Trump’s campaign stunned them. “Who talks that way?” Mythili said, adding that he promoted “the total objectification of people who were different than he is, this concept that there’s only one definition of what an American is: this white, male, gun-toting person.”Meera’s thoughts were captured in a journal about the march that she contributed to Yahoo News. She wrote this:“I am a woman of color, a child of immigrants, a wife of a Latino man and a mother to multiethnic children. And I take the election of a man who built his campaign on anti-immigration rhetoric — while shamelessly embracing racism and misogyny — very personally.”So she took that trip to Washington — four hours down, four back — although she’d never done anything like that before. She made and carried this sign: “Women’s rights are human rights.” Maya’s sign, befitting her work in medicine, said, “Health care is a right, not a privilege.” Mythili’s said, “E pluribus unum.” Out of many, one.Normally, the sisters told me, a crowd as densely packed as the one that day would have made them nervous. Not this crowd. “You would accidentally hit somebody in the head with your sign and it was always, ‘No worries, it’s O.K.’ ” Meera recalled.Maya remembered how someone started singing “The Star-Spangled Banner” and fellow marchers joined in, whether they could carry the tune or not.They got back to New Jersey after 10 p.m. When Meera looked at comments attached to her Yahoo posts, she was chilled:“That many angry cows marching in the same direction is called a stampede.” “Marching for Shariah law in U.S.A.: bunch of total idiots!” “If you want a free ride, move to Canada. Better yet, any brown country.” “What’s with the men in the march? Do they squat to pee?”Ah, the internet.Wanting to do what she can, Mythili recently called the offices of her state’s two senators — Cory Booker and Robert Menendez — to register her opposition to two of Trump’s cabinet nominees, Rex Tillerson and Betsy DeVos. She’d never done something like that before, either.But these aren’t usual times. One week in, that’s even clearer than before.
To the Editor:“The Assault on Regulation Begins” (editorial, Jan. 16) spotlights the truth about the health-protection-gutting legislation that the House of Representatives rushed through.Under the guise of reform, the House passed the Regulatory Accountability Act, giving polluters and the tobacco industry free rein to avoid meaningful oversight, regardless of the effect on the health of Americans.This legislation would essentially be a slow-motion shutdown of agencies working to implement proven, effective protections for public health. New safeguards under the Clean Air Act that prevent asthma attacks and premature deaths and common-sense steps under the Tobacco Control Act to protect children from flavored e-cigarettes and cigars would be halted in their tracks.You are right in urging the Senate to block these dangerous bills. Trying to mislead the public to believe that this so-called reform legislation will improve accountability is not only disingenuous, but also a direct threat to the health of our most vulnerable Americans.HAROLD P. WIMMERNational President and Chief ExecutiveAmerican Lung AssociationChicago
To the Editor:Re “How to Get Tough on Trade Deficits” (Op-Ed, Jan. 24):Jared Bernstein’s prescription for curing our trade deficit misses two important points. First, a trade deficit is not an indicator of failure. Our trade deficit is larger when our economy is growing and smaller when our economy is faltering.A trade deficit is essentially just the flip side of a capital surplus, which means that foreigners are seeing opportunities to invest in our country and employ Americans. That sounds to me like success.Second, our trade deficit is partly driven by our federal budget deficit. Why does all that foreign capital seek out the United States? Because our pool of savings is being drained by government borrowing into entitlements, federal salaries and military adventures.In fact, the budget deficit is our core problem: Our borrowing of the last decade has dampened our capacity for innovation and reduced our ability to invest in infrastructure, education and training. Breaking this vicious circle is the key to real economic success.MATTHEW ROONEYDirector, Economic GrowthGeorge W. Bush InstituteDallas
Thessaloniki, Greece — The refugee camp where I work as a doctor, in northern Greece, is seven hours ahead of Washington, so news of President Trump’s executive order barring refugees for 120 days — and Syrian refugees indefinitely — came in the middle of the night. The next morning, it was the topic of conversation among the translators I work with. Given the enormity of our day-to-day tasks, they’re impressively well versed in the news: I first learned about the draft order early last week from one of the Syrian translators in our group.He made a point of mentioning Mr. Trump’s promise to create vaguely defined “safe spaces” in Syria; I suspect this promise rings hollow, given that the Syrian government and Russia have shown no scruples about directly targeting hospitals and civilians, and the Islamic State acts without any regard for war conventions. Would Mr. Trump stand up to Vladimir V. Putin if the Russian president bombed a “safe space”?Another translator seemed equally unfazed by news of the ban, reminding me, “He’s already been saying he was going to do this.” His brother was recently resettled in the United States, and he will now likely be unable to visit his family if they are ever relocated in Europe.For most people here, though, the news is not really news, just another rejection by the West — and they have enough to deal with already. Having fled the horrors of an endless civil war, many Syrians languish in purgatorial refugee camps.The idea that these people present security risks that America’s current, strict vetting process wouldn’t identify is absurd. In camps outside of Thessaloniki, Greece, I have treated children with stomach pains and constipation because they avoid the infrequently cleaned latrines. Young men arrive in my clinic with bodies covered in scabies. A translator has explained to me that almost everyone in the camp sleeps late because their nights are ridden with nightmares and insomnia, unable to let go of the horrors they escaped.These patients live in converted warehouses that provide only partial shelter from the biting cold outside. The harsh Greek winter has brought inconsistencies in running water and frigid trips to sinks and showers, but surprisingly little relief from the constant stench of nearby waste-treatment facilities.Far darker stories loom beneath the common complaints of headaches, stomach pains and muscle strains. A formerly successful businessman fled the constant threat of kidnapping and violence. A university student was separated from his family after the locations of his school and family were divided by battle lines between Syrian government and rebel forces.Since Western Europe and, now, the United States have largely closed their doors to Syrian refugees, Greece is overwhelmed, with over 62,000 of them. Some fled years ago, floating from one host country to the next without finding a clear path to a stable new life or a safe return to Syria. Some arrived in Greece days or weeks after the borders through the “Balkans route” closed, leaving them separated from family members now living in Germany and elsewhere. They wait without end to be processed through the slow-moving and bureaucratic United Nations relocation program, promised opportunities to find a job, send their children to school and regain some degree of normalcy in an accepting European nation. These relocations, which grant safe haven for men, women and children fleeing terrible misfortune, have been characterized by President Trump as “a catastrophic mistake.”Most refugees I speak with have resigned themselves to relocation to any country that will take them. They mention places like Ireland, Finland and Luxembourg as particularly desirable; nobody mentions the United States. The United States has accepted just a little over 19,000 Syrian refugees since the start of hostilities in 2011, a tiny fraction of the 4.8 million Syrian refugees outside of Syria, typically after an extensive two-year screening process involving multiple federal agencies.The specific exclusion of Syrian refugees from the asylum process seems particularly egregious when compared with Greece’s system, which streamlines the asylum-seeking process for Syrian nationals, acknowledging the obvious validity of their asylum claim. And while refusing their admission to the United States, the Trump administration simultaneously seems intent on undermining the United Nations, which facilitates the camps and shelters these refugees are stuck in.It should go without saying, but the violence, extremism and oppression that Americans fear Syrian refugees will bring to the United States are the very same dangers that Syrian refugees fled their country to escape. The Trump administration is now completely closing the doors to honest people fleeing unimaginable conditions — people I know intimately, people who want nothing more than peace and opportunity for themselves and their families. If we let these policies stand, the United States will abandon any claim it holds as a moral leader in the world, and abandon millions of refugees to a life of pain and suffering.
During much of 2004, an Iraqi man whom I’ll call Frank, to protect his identity, served with my Marine Corps unit with great distinction. While our platoon lived among Iraqi soldiers in a village outside Falluja, our interpreters were our bridge to the surrounding community. Our relationships with local religious and tribal leaders kept us safe. Although the area was dangerous and attacks on United States troops were frequent, in that town, my unit was never touched. That was thanks to the efforts of Frank and other local interpreters.That November, my platoon of 30 Marines and 30 Iraqi National Guard soldiers pushed into Falluja for the second day of the fierce battle to retake the city from insurgents. As one of my squads assaulted a building, my platoon sergeant and Frank were shot and had to be evacuated by helicopter. To this day, Frank feels pain in his leg.His willingness, and the willingness of many other Iraqis like him, to brave battle and help American forces put them and their families in grave danger from militants.In 2006, another one of my interpreters, Abood, and his family were forced to flee Iraq after militants left a dog’s head outside their door with a note saying that they would be next. I owed my life to Abood and cannot count the number of times he put himself in harm’s way to protect “his” Marines. Two of Abood’s four daughters also served as interpreters. At the time, there was no way for them to immigrate to the United States, so he and his family fled to Jordan, where they waited with faint hopes that America would open its doors.Upset with the plight of these close allies, I testified before the Senate in January 2007 about the need to protect our interpreters. In an odd twist of fate, I met with Gen. John Kelly, now President Trump’s secretary of homeland security, who was then in charge of legislative affairs for the Marine Corps. Officially, he needed to ensure that I wasn’t going to embarrass the Marine Corps. But I’ll never forget his words to me: Abood had worn the Marine Corps uniform in combat, and we had an obligation to keep him safe.Following that hearing, Congress created a special visa program for Iraqis who helped the United States during the war. (A similar program was later created for Afghans.) This was not a partisan issue, but an issue of national honor and responsibility, and thousands of people have come to the United States on those visas.Seven months after I testified, Abood and his family arrived in the United States, as refugees. He passed away five years ago from cancer, but his daughters and wife are here. One daughter is a New York City police officer, and another is applying to join the force. Abood, like Frank and many other interpreters, joined our ranks because he believed America stood for something bigger than itself. They believed America was an exceptional country.Two months ago, I got an email from Frank. He was still living in Baghdad with daily fears for his and his family’s safety. After six years of vetting, including what seemed like countless interviews and background checks by various government agencies, he had finally been cleared to come to the United States with his pregnant wife and 18-month-old son. My wife and I began to prepare our guest room for their arrival.But now, because of a new executive order by President Trump, Frank is no longer welcome.And he is far from alone. The order Mr. Trump signed on Friday suspended entry of all refugees to the United States for 120 days, barred Syrian refugees indefinitely and blocked entry into the United States for 90 days for citizens of seven predominantly Muslim countries, including Iraq. Almost immediately my phone lit up with emails and texts from other military veterans who had been fighting to get their Iraqi or Afghan interpreters to the United States. Some were already on flights to New York and San Francisco. Now those people, including Frank and his family and hundreds of others in the special visa pipeline, are in limbo.When he signed the order, Mr. Trump declared that his action would keep Islamic terrorists out of America. “We don’t want them here,” he said. “We want to ensure that we are not admitting into our country the very threats our soldiers are fighting overseas.”But his measure is keeping out the very Muslims we do want here. Frank and thousands of other Iraqis and Afghans who worked with our forces in combat embody so much of what we stand for as a nation. And like so many past immigrants to America, like so many of our ancestors, they are fleeing repression for the hopes of a better life.More important, they did something that fewer and fewer Americans have chosen to do: They wore, at great risk, the uniform of our military. Frank fought and bled alongside us. And now, in his time of need, we have turned our backs on him, and on the very ideals that make this country great.
The restaurant is close, she says. It’s right here.I am walking after a reading in Toronto with a fellow writer, who’s leading us to a restaurant. With each step, everything in my body bursts — angina, shortness of breath, the scream of bursitis in my hip, the knowledge of sure heart failure ahead. The road she had described as flat is actually a gradual incline that might as well be Mount Everest. I need a scooter, a car.Can I call a cab? I ask.Come on, she repeats, it’s close.Close, where? I want to ask, but it is hard to shape words while in extremis. I want to say, “I can’t,” yet I don’t want to draw attention to my need. As I find so often when I’m out with able-bodied companions, “right here” keeps moving further away.Among my clearest memories of the world — of London, New York, Los Angeles, Paris, Athens, Kyoto and Shanghai — are of streets and sidewalks winding away from me, asphalt gray, their rises unending and impossible. My clearest memory of Paris is of subway stations with interminable passageways to the trains and being brought to tears.The woman knows something of my disability, and offers some help, but not enough. She slings my computer bag over her shoulder and yanks my travel bag behind. Still, even with her burden, she walks too fast for me. There are no cabs for me to flag. I struggle on but stay silent, hoping as I have for decades that this won’t be the day I die.■IN 1984, when I was 30, I was diagnosed with cervical cancer — carcinoma in situ. If you have to have cancer, that’s the type to get. I educated myself about my disease and sailed through treatment. But my brush with mortality shattered my idea of the world and what I expected from it. Nine months later, I had a heart attack. My body had dispensed two of the major killer diseases in less than a year? No.When I had the heart attack I went to the hospital. The doctor refused to do more than blood work because I was “the wrong age and gender for a heart attack.” He gave me Tylenol with codeine for pain and sent me home. The heart attack lasted 12 more hours and caused permanent damage to my heart muscle.When I got a diagnosis of coronary artery disease weeks later, I had to choose between open-heart surgery, which I was convinced I couldn’t survive, or long-term medical treatment. I chose the latter. Along with exhaustion and worry for my kids, who were 4 and 7 years old at the time, all I felt was shame, a heavy, pressing blanket of shame.In the years that followed, I was exhausted and sick. I had angina attacks every time I walked or otherwise exerted myself.I began to have joint problems around 1990, but anything that wasn’t life-threatening, I ignored. In 1994, I developed heart failure, which very gradually worsened until, around 2009, it went from mild to moderate, affecting most everyday activities. If I exerted myself, my ankles would swell and my lungs would fill, followed by months of cardiac asthma and coughing.What really sent me downhill fast was the end of my 18-year marriage. My heart function worsened and I got shortness of breath from further-narrowing arteries. Several stents were implanted but failed within months, and my bouts of severe arrhythmias grew longer and more frequent.For four months, I suffered undiagnosed unstable angina, and then I had another heart attack, resulting in more cardiac damage, for which I got yet another stent and then open-heart surgery. But even after that major procedure, heart failure, angina and arrhythmias continued unabated until I was so short of breath I had to crawl to the bathroom. Finally, doctors discovered I was suffering from atrial fibrillation (a dangerous kind of irregular heartbeat) and in December 2015, I had cardiac ablation to steady my heart rhythm, which kicked in three months later.Still, for all that’s been fixed, I’ve never managed to bounce back. My exhaustion is profound; I still have shortness of breath during exertion and every activity needs to be balanced against how long it will take to recover from it. I’ve become nearly a shut-in.Each one of my symptoms on its own is disabling, and together they brew up an internal hurricane. But we expect disability to be visible; we require the disabled to  look impaired. I could always pass. Around me, people were in wheelchairs, had mobility devices, used Braille and seeing-eye dogs.I had none of that, yet I proclaimed disability? People disagreed. I was screamed at for using disabled parking, told I didn’t qualify for benefits (Meals on Wheels wasn’t suitable for “someone like me”), told I was lazy, denied friendships (“my friends show up”), accused of faking it or of having angina only when it was convenient. I’d also hear rambling nonsense telling me coronary artery disease was karma, and I was atoning for my abuses of others in a prior life. A few people opined that my illness was God’s punishment for being homosexual.But never feigning extra-incapacity was important to me. In all these years, I’ve never faked a symptom. That matters not a whit to anyone else (nor could I prove it), but it’s a badge of personal pride to me.Still, having coronary artery disease, an old white guy’s disease, so young was humiliating. I was a feminist lesbian. We were supposed to be strong and independent. We weren’t supposed to need. My disease meant I was all need.I thought I had somehow caused my own heart disease. I did not drink, do drugs or eat a lot of junk food, and I was not overweight. Was it stress? Maybe I just couldn’t handle life. Eventually, I discovered it’s very likely I have an autoimmune disease that caused systemic and continual inflammation, itself a factor in hardening arteries. This disease explains my arthritic pain in my hips and knees, the hair loss of my childhood and more symptoms. It’s late, but finally I have a logical reason for the wreckage of my physical life.I needed any help anyone was willing to offer. I still do. But utility is not a good building block for relationships, and so I pretend that my need is less acute. I can do it, I can do it, I can do it. I knew every excuse to slow the pace. Undone shoelace (good for two, maybe even three stops); coughing and bending double in a faux flu attack (while digging for nitro); stopping dead and throwing up my arms in the middle of a sentence as if a self-captivating speaker; a dropped tube of lip balm, a cover for another spritz of nitro.Every day with a disability is a bad situation from which I can’t extricate myself. I’m feeble and vulnerable. If someone brandished a knife at me on the street and shouted, “Run!” I couldn’t. If I went to a protest and was pepper-sprayed or detained without access to my cardiac medications, I’d promptly die. So I sit, mostly alone, on the border of life, watching others lead it.■THERE! There! I spy a restaurant, more than a block ahead. A block! So hopelessly far! I resolve to make it to those patio chairs. How to explain my horror as my friend stomps on past them, to explain my panic as eventually we come on a whole strip of restaurants yet, still, pass one, two, three? I feel my body refusing: No, no more. How to explain how flabbergasted I am when we arrive at our destination and there’s a flight of stairs?Am I going up? Will I finally express how physically challenged I really am? Or am I still too embarrassed to save my life?
To the Editor:Re “White Police Chief Apologizes for a 1940 Southern Lynching” (front page, Jan. 27):Louis M. Dekmar, the chief of police in LaGrange, Ga., deserves our admiration for turning and facing his department’s role in the lynching of Austin Callaway, an African-American man who was dragged from the LaGrange jail in 1940 and murdered by a mob of masked white men.In an era when grieving African-American communities still struggle to convince their white neighbors that “black lives matter,” it is heartening to see a police chief acknowledge his town’s history of white terrorism and to hear him admit that it is still today “a burden that officers carry.”But it’s also tragic that such an admission is so rare as to make front-page news. Hundreds of police departments owe similar apologies to the African- American communities they serve, for racial crimes that are often still in living memory.Even as we celebrate this small step toward truth and reconciliation in LaGrange, we must ask police leaders all over the country: Who among you are strong enough, and brave enough, to follow Chief Dekmar’s lead?PATRICK PHILLIPSBrooklynThe writer is the author of “Blood at the Root: A Racial Cleansing in America.”
President Trump will hardly be short of far-right cabinet members, including an education secretary who has called public schools a “dead end,” a labor secretary who has been cited for employment law violations and an Environmental Protection Agency administrator who has sued his own department.But within the Trump team, the views of Representative Mick Mulvaney, Republican of South Carolina, his little-known choice to lead the important Office of Management and Budget, rank as among the most reactionary.Only slivers of this were visible in Mr. Mulvaney’s uneventful confirmation hearing on Tuesday.In fact, Mr. Mulvaney — a founding member of the Freedom Caucus with an almost perfect conservative voting record — spent his six-year congressional career leading the charge against federal spending and borrowing, voting against everything from Hurricane Sandy relief to reopening the government after the 2013 shutdown.His intransigence placed him well to the right of Republican leadership, including former Speaker John Boehner, whom he repeatedly opposed for — get this — being excessively soft on curbing disbursements from the federal purse.Not surprisingly, cutting deeply into core retirement and health care programs is at the top of his to-do list. “We have to end Medicare as we know it,” he said on Fox Business Network, soon after entering Congress in 2011. (Medicare enjoys support from 77 percent of Americans, according to a 2015 Kaiser Foundation poll.)While Mr. Mulvaney is not alone in his terrifying views, the difference between him and other members of his deeply conservative brigade is that he will likely soon have an unusual opportunity to cement them into place; O.M.B. (as it is universally known) is the control center for the administration’s fiscal policy.Each year, the budget office oversees the federal government’s budgeting process, receiving requests from individual agencies, analyzing them and making recommendations to the president as to what spending should be requested from Congress and what the deficit should be.From that perch, Mr. Mulvaney will be well positioned to help excise funding for the Affordable Care Act, defund Planned Parenthood, abolish the Export-Import Bank, eliminate government-financed research, raise the retirement age for Social Security to 70 and even clamp down on off-budget military spending, to name just a few of his targets.We may already be starting to see the shadowy outlines of this kind of agenda; the new administration is reportedly considering proposals to cut $10.5 trillion of spending over the next decade, more than 40 percent of many important programs.Mr. Mulvaney shares many extreme economic views with his first choice for the Republican nomination, the libertarian-leaning senator Rand Paul, particularly his belief that the mounting national debt is an existential crisis that must be addressed regardless of the consequences.In that quest, the 49-year-old South Carolinian has argued for a balanced-budget amendment, a truly terrible idea that would eliminate the federal government’s ability to use deficit spending in times of economic weakness.Similarly, he has repeatedly voted against legislation to raise the debt ceiling, without which the federal government would shut down and possibly even default on its obligations, neither of which seemed to bother the congressman.And like his new boss, Mr. Mulvaney has suggested that if the nation’s debt continued to mount, one way to address that problem would be to push creditors to accept less than full payment.The consequences of that, said Janet Yellen, the Federal Reserve chairwoman, with classic Fed understatement, would be “very severe,” at a minimum resulting “in much higher borrowing costs for American households and businesses.”The feelings are mutual. Mr. Mulvaney has repeatedly blasted the Federal Reserve’s low interest rate policies, including at a dinner held by the John Birch Society, an ultraconservative organization founded in 1958 that today could be branded alt-right.His antipathy toward the Fed has led him to support legislation that would severely compromise the central bank’s independence. That’s among Mr. Mulvaney’s most misguided notions; the Fed’s strong response to the financial crisis played a key role in the economic recovery of the last eight years.And then there’s the budget office’s responsibility for reviewing every major proposed regulation — as well as existing ones — which will allow him to continue his war against government rules of almost every flavor.I’ll be curious to see how Mr. Mulvaney meshes with his new colleagues. As he acknowledged Tuesday, his unabashed advocacy of cutting Social Security and Medicare puts him at odds with his new boss.The new president has also said that no one should lose their health care when Obamacare is replaced, while the alternatives that Mr. Mulvaney has supported would inevitably result in many losing their insurance.In the same vein, he will surely hate Mr. Trump’s plans for enormous unfinanced tax cuts and huge infrastructure spending, which are projected to increase total deficits by $5.3 trillion over the next 10 years.Policy differences aren’t unusual within the new team. But those who know Mr. Mulvaney say that his absolutism will make it difficult for him to make the compromises that are inevitably necessary in the policy-making process.Let’s hope that cooler heads prevail.
To the Editor:Re “Felony Charges for Journalists Arrested at Protests Raise Fears for Press Freedom” (news article, Jan. 26):Your headline caught my eye this morning. I expected to read that the story was about the Philippines, Pakistan, Yemen or some other war-torn, corrupt or backward country. Instead, I was appalled to learn that this happened in Washington.I’m a retired law enforcement officer and know full well that it is our mission to bring order out of chaos. I also know from years of experience that we must sort out the troublemakers from those merely in the vicinity. Sometimes, depending on circumstances, it might take a bit of time, but ultimately the job gets done.To file charges against journalists who are covering a story smacks of the vindictive tenor of the times.MacKENZIE ALLENSanta Fe, N.M.
International pressure following the 2013 collapse of a garment factory building in Bangladesh that killed more than 1,100 people brought improvement in workplace safety and forced the government of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to amend the country’s labor laws. Yet it would be a mistake for Western consumers to assume that clothing made in Bangladesh is now produced under safe, fair conditions. A brutal recent crackdown on protesting garment workers is proof that clothing manufactured in Bangladesh is still exacting a terrible price from the people who make it.A strike by workers at the Windy Apparels factory in December, to protest working conditions and shockingly low wages, set off protests that spread to dozens of factories. Owners responded by suspending or firing some 1,500 workers. Factory owners who produce clothing for brands like H&M, Gap, Walmart, C&A, Abercrombie and Fitch and Tommy Hilfiger filed criminal complaints against 25 labor activists and workers, charging some under the country’s sweeping 1974 Special Powers Act.The truth is that the 2013 labor-law reforms did little to improve workers’ rights: As of last year, just 10 percent of Bangladesh’s more than 4,500 garment factories had registered unions. The minimum wage of 32 cents an hour has not been raised since 2013, despite inflation.The crackdown is clearly intended to intimidate workers and keep Bangladesh a low-wage country, thus protecting an industry that accounts for some 80 percent of export earnings. But it also could make Bangladesh less attractive to Western retailers that, once again, find the reputation of their brands compromised. The American Apparel and Footwear Association urged Ms. Hasina’s government last week to adopt “a regular and transparent wage review mechanism.” But the lot of Bangladesh’s garment workers will not improve until Western retailers stop exerting pressure on suppliers to drive costs even lower.The European Union, Bangladesh’s largest trading partner, also has a responsibility to help. The Sustainability Compact for Bangladesh, begun by the bloc in response to the 2013 building collapse, covers “respect for labor rights, in particular freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining,” as well as “responsible business conduct.” The failure by the garment industry and Ms. Hasina’s government to adhere to its principles stains an industry and threatens the economy and stability of Bangladesh.
We were inspired to make this film while writing a graphic novel, in which one of our characters was an East German swimmer who tried to escape the German Democratic Republic by swimming across the Baltic Sea to Denmark. She never arrived, as she was caught by the secret service (the “Stasi”) and sent to prison.This story was representative for many East German women, who were simply trying to flee a repressive regime for the relative freedom of the West and often sent to Hoheneck, the notorious women’s prison. A scriptwriter for this film, Max Mönch, had an aunt who was a political prisoner, and she told us more about the harrowing experience of women there.The general themes of repression in East Germany were not new for us. But as we did our research, we were surprised and enraged to learn that the thousands of women imprisoned at Hoheneck were forced into what seemed akin to slave labor, producing goods that were sold to the West for significant profit. For us, the relationship between East and West Germany suddenly became more complicated than we had previously understood.We decided to make a short film about forced labor in Hoheneck, and connected with Birgit Willschütz and Gabriele Stötzer, two former prisoners, who explained what Hoheneck meant to them.For Ms. Willschütz, telling her story was extremely difficult. Although her time at Hoheneck was more than 30 years ago, she still hasn’t recovered. The hardest part, when she was suddenly taken to jail, was leaving behind her 3-year-old daughter. In the middle of her interview, she started to break down, so Max ended it and they simply drank vodka together, resuming the interview a few weeks later when she had recovered.Gabi Stötzer coped with her memories not through tears but rather sharp-minded analysis — she used it like a knife to stab away her nightmare in prison, writing books and essays about it. We are grateful that both women allowed us to record their memories for this film.We ended up with more than 100 pages of interviews, every syllable containing the story of a life. So rather than create a traditional story with a beginning, middle and end, we decided to make something more conceptual, a film that seemed more like a painting. The result is the interviews, set in fragments against Volker’s haunting images. Each depicts in excruciating detail the pain and sadness of the women’s stories.This video is part of a series produced by independent filmmakers who have received support from the nonprofit Sundance Institute.
We’re just over a week into the Trump-Putin regime, and it’s already getting hard to keep track of the disasters. Remember the president’s temper tantrum over his embarrassingly small inauguration crowd? It already seems like ancient history.But I want to hold on, just for a minute, to the story that dominated the news on Thursday, before it was, er, trumped by the uproar over the refugee ban. As you may recall — or maybe you don’t, with the crazy coming so thick and fast — the White House first seemed to say that it would impose a 20 percent tariff on Mexico, but may have been talking about a tax plan, proposed by Republicans in the House, that would do no such thing; then said that it was just an idea; then dropped the subject, at least for now.For sheer viciousness, loose talk about tariffs isn’t going to match slamming the door on refugees, on Holocaust Remembrance Day, no less. But the tariff tale nonetheless epitomizes the pattern we’re already seeing in this shambolic administration — a pattern of dysfunction, ignorance, incompetence, and betrayal of trust.The story seems, like so much that’s happened lately, to have started with President Trump’s insecure ego: People were making fun of him because Mexico will not, as he promised during the campaign, pay for that useless wall along the border. So his spokesman, Sean Spicer, went out and declared that a border tax on Mexican products would, in fact, pay for the wall. So there!As economists quickly pointed out, however, tariffs aren’t paid by the exporter. With some minor qualifications, basically they’re paid for by the buyers — that is, a tariff on Mexican goods would be a tax on U.S. consumers. America, not Mexico, would therefore end up paying for the wall.Oops. But that wasn’t the only problem. America is part of a system of agreements — a system we built — that sets rules for trade policy, and one of the key rules is that you can’t just unilaterally hike tariffs that were reduced in previous negotiations.If America were to casually break that rule, the consequences would be severe. The risk wouldn’t so much be one of retaliation — although that, too — as of emulation: If we treat the rules with contempt, so will everyone else. The whole trading system would start to unravel, with hugely disruptive effects everywhere, very much including U.S. manufacturing.So is the White House actually planning to go down that route? By focusing on imports from Mexico, Mr. Spicer conveyed that impression; but he also said that he was talking about “comprehensive tax reform as a means to tax imports from countries that we have a trade deficit from.” That seemed to be a reference to a proposed overhaul of corporate taxes, which would include “adjustable border taxes.”But here’s the thing: that overhaul wouldn’t at all have the effects he was suggesting. It wouldn’t target countries with which we run deficits, let alone Mexico; it would apply to all trade. And it wouldn’t really be a tax on imports.To be fair, this is a widely misunderstood point. Many people who should know better believe that value-added taxes, which many countries impose, discourage imports and subsidize exports. Mr. Spicer echoed that misperception. In fact, however, value-added taxes are basically national sales taxes, which neither discourage nor encourage imports. (Yes, imports pay the tax, but so do domestic products.)And the proposed change in corporate taxes, while differing from value-added taxation in some ways, would similarly be neutral in its effects on trade. What this means, in particular, is that it would do nothing whatsoever to make Mexico pay for the wall.Some of this is a bit technical — see my blog for more details. But isn’t the U.S. government supposed to get stuff right before floating what sounds like a declaration of trade war?So let’s sum it up: The White House press secretary created a diplomatic crisis while trying to protect the president from ridicule over his foolish boasting. In the process he demonstrated that nobody in authority understands basic economics. Then he tried to walk the whole thing back.All of this should be placed in the larger context of America’s quickly collapsing credibility.Our government hasn’t always done the right thing. But it has kept its promises, to nations and individuals alike.Now all of that is in question. Everyone, from small nations who thought they were protected against Russian aggression, to Mexican entrepreneurs who thought they had guaranteed access to our markets, to Iraqi interpreters who thought their service with the U.S. meant an assurance of sanctuary, now has to wonder whether they’ll be treated like stiffed contractors at a Trump hotel.That’s a very big loss. And it’s probably irreversible.
For a man who cares about nothing as much as his own glory, President Trump’s obsession with the size of his inaugural crowd isn’t surprising. After all, from where he stood on the steps of the Capitol on that drizzly Friday, it must have seemed unimaginably vast.“I looked over that sea of people, and I said to myself: ‘Wow,’ ” Mr. Trump told ABC News on Wednesday, in his first major television interview since taking office.The crowd on the National Mall, estimated at about 160,000, was surely far bigger than any he had faced before. But it wasn’t, of course, the biggest in history, as Mr. Trump, along with his press secretary, Sean Spicer, continues to falsely claim — not by a long shot.Debating crowd sizes may seem inconsequential and petty, and it is. But Mr. Trump was the one who had been unable to let go of the issue during his first week in office: On Thursday, The Washington Post reported that on the morning after he was sworn in, the president himself pressured the director of the National Park Service to locate more photos of the crowd in hopes of disproving news media accounts of its size. With behavior like this, Mr. Trump has reminded the nation of an essential truth about his personality: He sees what he wants to see, and nothing else.Most press accounts and much of the debate have understandably focused on the president’s false and often childishly fantastic “alternative facts.” But the greater hazard to his presidency, and the country, is the other dynamic in his hostile relationship with the truth: his refusal to take contrary facts in — to compare the ego-stroking view from the Capitol steps to the more revealing aerial photos.Mr. Trump wanted his inauguration crowd to be the biggest ever, so in his mind it was, no matter what was plainly obvious to anyone with a pair of eyes.Any information that challenges his worldview does not lead him to reconsider his beliefs; it “gets flushed down the sort of emotional and intellectual dispose-all that I think he carries around with him,” Timothy O’Brien, one of Mr. Trump’s biographers, told Politico recently.We have had incurious presidents before, and they also displayed tremendous self-certainty. Yet even The Decider himself, George W. Bush, proved willing to rethink his views as contrary facts came to light — like the failure of Iraqis to garland American occupiers with flowers. Mr. Trump is not merely uninterested in facts; he repels them. In their place, he confects his own reality to feed his bottomless emotional and psychological needs. It is not America First, it is Donald Trump First, and always.Consider his response to ABC’s David Muir, who challenged him to back up his repeated, and repeatedly debunked, claim that millions of people voted illegally — which he insists is the reason he lost the popular vote by nearly three million votes. Rather than admitting he had no evidence, Mr. Trump said: “You know what’s important? Millions of people agree with me when I say that.” In other words, facts aren’t important; blind trust in a leader is.This is the essence of Mr. Trump: selling himself or his plans by massaging and embellishing facts, or simply making them up and hoping everyone plays along. It is a strategy he developed, quite purposefully, during his days as a brash New York City real estate tycoon, and later relied on as a TV personality. He even has his own term for it: “truthful hyperbole,” which Mr. Trump described in his 1987 book, “The Art of the Deal,” as “an innocent form of exaggeration — and a very effective form of promotion.”The tactic worked back when he was cajoling banks into giving him giant loans for casinos that would later collapse in bankruptcy, or trying to convince people that his 58-story skyscraper was actually 68 stories, or claiming that his reality show, “The Apprentice,” was the “No. 1 show on television,” when it was in fact 67th. But it’s going to be far harder for him to sustain his illusions now that he leads the most powerful nation on earth and oversees a complex government staffed by millions of people, including some powerful ones who are unlikely to parrot his “facts” when they conflict with the truth. What happens when Mr. Trump, looking through his reality-distortion goggles, claims that America is winning the war against terrorism and his defense secretary, Jim Mattis, surveys the same landscape and disagrees? Which “facts” will the American people be told?Already, there are signs that Mr. Trump’s closest aides are struggling to cling to some self-respect by edging away from the president’s fantasies. At Tuesday’s White House press briefing, Mr. Spicer defended Mr. Trump’s fraudulent claim that millions of people voted illegally. “He believes what he believes,” Mr. Spicer said. “What does that mean for democracy?” asked a reporter. “It means that I’ve answered your question,” Mr. Spicer replied.Mr. Trump’s allergy to empirical facts leads naturally to his attacks on the media, whose job it is to report accurately and to hold politicians to account for the things they say and do — goals that are anathema to a huckster. On Thursday, one of Mr. Trump’s top advisers, Stephen Bannon, told The New York Times that the “elite media” is “the opposition party” and should “keep its mouth shut.” Congressional Republicans are getting on board, too: Last week, Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, the chairman of the House Science, Space and Technology Committee, said it was “better to get your news directly from the president. In fact it might be the only way to get the unvarnished truth.”This attitude is, of course, all too familiar to the citizens of authoritarian regimes around the world — from China to Russia to Turkey to Egypt — where leaders survive by intimidating or imprisoning journalists, writers and artists, or anyone who dares to challenge the “truth” and “information” generated by the regime. Mr. Trump can engage in intimidation through his Twitter and Facebook accounts alone, where he has a direct line to tens of millions of Americans.A closed disinformation loop may not seem like a big deal when the dispute is over crowd size, but the stakes will soon be far higher. Mr. Trump’s foremost biographer, the investigative journalist Wayne Barrett, who died this month, said in December that “there’s no check on his power except reality.” The nation, and the world, are about to find out if that’s right.
The philosopher Peter Singer was once attacked for contradicting himself. Singer advanced an ethical theory in which the most worthwhile thing was complex conscious life and feeling, and did not shy away from the logical consequence that the life of a severely mentally impaired human was worth less than that of a chicken. Journalists then discovered that Singer’s mother had Alzheimer’s and that he chose to spend his money taking care of her rather than helping chickens.They called Singer a hypocrite and The New Republic even ran a cover with a picture of an addled old woman with a walker and the headline “Other People’s Mothers.”So, how bad is contradicting yourself?In philosophy, since Socrates (a troll before there ever was an internet), the answer has been “very bad.” If you find you believe two inconsistent propositions you need to do something about it. You owe a theory.But theories themselves tend to be confusing, unsatisfactory or both.In the case above, for example, you could try to find some feature of mothers with dementia that is shared with people we believe are worth caring about — let’s say Will Smith — and that chickens do not possess. For example: beaklessness. Will Smith is beakless, mothers with dementia are beakless, chickens have beaks. So we now have a theory of why Will Smith and Peter Singer’s mother deserve care and chickens do not.Except it’s obviously a bad theory. Your mother might have been a popular conceptual artist who before getting Alzheimer’s surgically gave herself a beak. That would put her in the same category as the chicken. You could argue that the mother with dementia is worth more because she is a physical continuation of the mother you loved. But that won’t hold: some day, her body will be a skeleton and you will not want to invite skeleton Mom to dinner.These are both pretty silly theories; obviously we can do better. But I bring them up to make a point about the inherent difficulty of theory as a tool.Part of the reason this mother/chicken puzzle is so hard is it runs up against two contradictory beliefs we have about human beings:a) Humans are meaningful; the things they do make senseb) Humans are things with causes like anything else — as meaningless as forest fires.Philosophers from Descartes to Kant to Donald Davidson have noticed this inconsistency and have tried to come up with a theory of how humans could be both sources of meaning and subject to causation. Descartes thought humans were just two different things in some mysterious way yoked together, as if you stapled a rhinoceros to a shark. Kant thought that humans were one thing with two aspects — the phenomenal, which placed us in a net of causes, and the noumenal, which revealed us as free. Davidson argued that the world was neither mental nor physical, but could receive physical or mental descriptions, and be understood differently depending upon which description we used.One worry about all these theories is that they solve the contradiction — machine man versus meaningful man — at the cost of raising hard questions themselves. You feel like asking Descartes, “How do those two substances go together?” Or Kant, “How can a self be both noumenal and phenomenal?” Or Davidson, “Just why should there be mental and physical descriptions of the same event?” More upsettingly, they don’t seem to help us resolve the contradiction of “mother beats chicken” and “chicken beats mother.”Did the mother with dementia lose her Cartesian thinking substance when the plaques in her brain got too plaquey? Did her noumenal self take off for noumenal heaven and leave her phenomenal self minding the store? Did she stop falling under the mental descriptions and become eligible only for the physical description? Just when and how did the mother cross the road from human-land to chicken-land?We started with an ethical contradiction:i) Mother is better than chickenii) Chicken is better than motherand found behind it a metaphysical contradiction:i) People are meaningfulii) People are things.But behind that lurks a deeper, really hard contradiction, namely:i) People are best responded to with love and respectii) People are best responded to by understanding their causes and manipulating them when they don’t meet our goals.If you are a cynic you could say we live in a culture in which people say they believe (i) and teach their children to say (i) when asked, but always act as if they believe (ii). So at the end of the day Singer, like the rest of us, lives in a world of causal relationships that he must manipulate in the usual way: by spending money. Spend it on Mom and you have less for the PETA campaign against factory farming, and vice versa.As grown-ups we are always dealing with actual decisions where we try to cause other people to do things. Kant said that an individual human should never be used as a means but only as an end, but he had a servant. It’s a nice idea, but how do you put it into practice?I may be a quitter, a product of a consumerist culture that demands instant gratification, but I despair of coming up with a rigorous consistent theory of what distinguishes demented mothers from chickens in time for all the people whose mothers have dementia (I am one of them).If we can’t come up with a theory, or what amounts to the same thing, can’t come up with a theory in enough time for us to live our lives, what should we do? Obviously one response is to muddle through, hack it, suck it up. Or to put it in a way more pleasing to our vanity, accept that life is a mysterious wonderful paradoxical thing that can’t be thought through, and if necessary help along that acceptance with meditation or the appropriate psychoactive substance, maybe bourbon.I think, though, that we can do better, and one step toward doing that is cutting ourselves — individually and as a culture — some slack for being inconsistent. When we look at other cultures we can see that they are attempts to square the circle of conflicting worldviews. The ancient Chinese were heirs to both a Taoist and a Confucian heritage. So sometimes an ancient Chinese literatus was inclined to let it all hang like a Taoist, and sometimes he wanted to impose a harmonious social system on unruly human impulses like a Confucian.We don’t blame the ancient Chinese literatus for being inconsistent, so why not try to be at least as forgiving to ourselves? Not just because life will be less stressful or because people who are harsh and unforgiving to themselves end up being harsh and unforgiving to others, as the journalists were with Singer (although both things, I believe, are true) but because if we have two sets of practices that work, we will lose something by giving up on either one of them. It helps us make it as a civilization to view people as sources of meaning and it also helps us to view them as causally determined. Until we have something better we risk impoverishing our skill set by getting rid of either one of them in a foolish quest for consistency, the hobgoblin (or is it the bugbear?) of little minds.But what do we do about mother and the chicken? Do we have any resources better than the bourbon for dealing with the times when our lives get paradoxical?I think we have at least three: ritual, horror, and comedy.Ritual: Every holiday dinner where the chicken is on the table and Mom, even with her Alzheimer’s, has a seat at it, helps resolve the tension in our treatment of humans and animals. We don’t have a way to think our way through it, but if Mom is part of the rituals of the family, the dance of acknowledgment and attunement, we solve our problems by living, even if we can’t solve them by thinking.Horror: Horror is a response for when the paradox has strayed into territory that is unlivable. The movie “Freaks” ends with a beauty transformed into a chicken woman — it can still creep us out, and by keeping in touch with our capacity for horror, our bodies can navigate the treacherous waters where our minds can’t. Mother’s skeleton at the dinner table mentioned above makes us shudder — that shudder is worth holding on to.Comedy: Finally, comedy has always been about connecting incompatible perspectives: that’s why traditional comedies often end with a wedding. At the end of “Annie Hall,” Woody Allen’s character tells a joke about a man whose brother thinks he is a chicken; the man won’t turn his brother in to doctors, he says, because “I need the eggs.” He invites us to see how some our distinctions are illusions from one perspective but necessary from another. It’s a contradiction and his joke lets us live with it.The Columbia philosopher Sidney Morgenbesser, when asked if he accepted the view that something could be p and not p at the same time, answered, “I do and I don’t.” I used to think he was kidding. Now that I’ve thought about it I think he wasn’t and he was.
To the Editor:By purging nearly all references to climate change from the White House website (news article, Jan. 21), the Trump administration has ceded yet another American leadership role to other countries, in this case, probably China.President Xi Jinping of China stated clearly in Davos the importance of supporting the Paris climate agreement (DealBook, Jan. 22). Our new government’s Luddite disregard for scientific data threatens the lives and economic well-being of all our citizens.Donald Trump may be our president, but because of backward-leaning policies, it is more and more apparent that the president of the United States is no longer leader of the free world. America is diminished.JANE P. CAREYPaso Robles, Calif.
Readers offer perspectives on how low-income young people can be helped to finish college.To the Editor: Re “America’s Great Working-Class Colleges” (column, Jan. 22):David Leonhardt calls attention to new research that shows the important role that working-class colleges play in helping graduates prosper and succeed. More than half the students who enter these colleges, however, fail to graduate, missing the lifetime benefits a college degree confers.My research at the City University of New York shows that health and social problems that interfere with academic success are one reason. Our surveys of representative samples of CUNY community college and undergraduate students show that about half report one or more, and a quarter report two or more, of eight conditions identified in the literature as disrupting academic progress.These are depression, anxiety, pregnancy or raising young children, partner violence, lack of health insurance, no regular medical provider, food insecurity and obesity.By helping students overcome the health and social problems that undermine academic success, universities serving low-income populations can contribute even more to reducing the educational, income, health and life satisfaction inequalities that characterize the United States.NICHOLAS FREUDENBERGNew YorkThe writer is a professor of public health at CUNY and director of Healthy CUNY, a university initiative to promote health for academic success.To the Editor: David Leonhardt’s column about working-class colleges beautifully spells out the power that education has to propel poor Americans into the middle class and beyond. Let’s hope that his article reminds state legislators of the great good that a college education can do for citizens of their states, and that the Ivy League is shamed into doing much more.One question, though: John B. King, President Obama’s education secretary, is quoted as saying, “These institutions have a moral and educational responsibility.” Why are only universities held to a moral standard of helping poor Americans? What about state and federal government, public schools and us citizens?We all have a role to play in helping the least among us realize their potential, and to ignore that responsibility is shameful.AMANDA ABRAMSDurham, N.C.To the Editor: It’s not that colleges fail to serve their students but that too many students are not college material in the first place. It takes a certain I.Q. and sound study habits to handle college-level work. Unfortunately, third-tier colleges have diluted the curriculum to the point that it is now little more than what is offered in high school. Yet despite the lowering of standards, dropout rates remain appallingly high.Something is terribly wrong with this picture. But we refuse to acknowledge the harm being done to students who would have been far better off attending community college to earn a certificate in a high-demand field.WALT GARDNERLos AngelesThe writer’s Reality Check blog is published in Education Week.To the Editor: I am the son of a working-class family. My father, who was raised in an orphanage, was never afforded an education, restricting his earnings potential and upward mobility. I attended Brooklyn College, CUNY. My father advanced me the tuition money, a mere $50 a term, which I had to pay back.After military service, I began a career working for major companies and consulting firms. Supplementing my college education with graduate degrees that I earned at night, I soon moved up the corporate ladder to management positions.My Brooklyn College education propelled me into the upper middle class, providing me the opportunities that America has to offer. Many of my classmates shared the same experience. Children of bus drivers and street cleaners, they became professionals in varied fields, able to reap the rewards of our great society.KEN LEFKOWITZMedford, N.J.To the Editor: David Leonhardt’s column rightly spotlights the vital role that public urban universities play as engines of opportunity and economic mobility, especially for low-income students. It starts with access.Public colleges and universities enroll nearly three-quarters of students. The sheer size of these institutions means that they have the potential to substantially increase economic mobility nationally. These schools can increase enrollment and maintain quality, something often missed in rankings. Scale is an asset.But access is only the first step. Public urban universities are leading the way with approaches to increase the number of low-income students who graduate, which is central to increasing overall graduation rates. These institutions are thoughtfully engaging K-12 school systems and community colleges to align student pathways, rethinking financial aid as a tool to support completion, and building relationships with employers to support career development.Public urban universities continue to innovate, and if paired with state reinvestment in public institutions, the positive effect we’re already seeing can grow exponentially.SHARI GARMISEWashingtonThe writer is vice president of urban initiatives at the Association of Public and Land-Grant Universities.To the Editor: As David Leonhardt asserts, “Improving higher education should be a national priority.” After all, as Raj Chetty’s new research points out, colleges and universities play a pivotal role in helping students, especially students from low-income families, climb the economic ladder and build actual wealth. A critical component of that improvement in higher ed that is often overlooked is that nearly 40 percent of students graduate from college without any internship experience.For students from lower income families, many of the internships that are available to them are unpaid, and therefore unfeasible. A person would need to make $26 an hour to afford a one-bedroom unit in Washington, yet most government internships are unpaid. As a country, one of our goals should be to close the increasing wealth gap, and to achieve that, we must ensure that our graduates have sufficient experience. Unpaid internships isolate particular types of students who simply cannot afford to work without pay.Colleges and universities, some with endowments in the billions, must ensure that all students are granted the same opportunities. A simple sponsorship program for qualifying students that picks up the cost of that unpaid internship is a good way to start.CARLOS MARK VERAFounder, Pay Our InternsWashington
Joyce Denke was 19 years old when her fiancé, Cpl. David Ives, received his orders for Vietnam. It was early 1967, and he had only six months left in the service. The young couple, who lived in Temple, Tex., just south of Waco, decided not to let the war dampen their excitement about their future life together, and they started making plans to get married when he came home in November.After just seven weeks in Vietnam, Ives was killed in action on April 23, 1967, at the age of 20. Ms. Denke still has the last letter he wrote to her, dated April 19, 1967. He signed it, “my very deepest love, Dave.”Ives’s death inspired Ms. Denke to join the American Red Cross and go to Vietnam. She wanted to do something to honor his service, and so in 1970 she deployed with the Red Cross as part of its Supplemental Recreational Activities Overseas program. It was one of several ways American women participated in the war.The Vietnam War story is a tale of combat: walking point, ambushes, booby traps, seeing friends die, narrowly escaping death. Too often, though, our idea of “combat” is male-centered — we think about the men firing the weapons, flying the planes and taking casualties. We forget that thousands of women also played a central role in that story.Military nurses, Women’s Army Corps personnel and civilians who served with the Red Cross regularly saw the consequences of combat. For nurses, and to some degree for S.R.A.O. women like Ms. Denke, dealing with combat was their job. Nurses treated soldiers’ physical wounds, and Red Cross women worked to boost the morale of troops, tending to their emotional wounds.Women were not subject to the Vietnam-era draft, but thousands volunteered. For some women, the war offered an opportunity to travel and postpone marriage and motherhood, still the expected roles for young women in the 1960s. Some military women offered to go to Vietnam because they wanted to support the war effort or to see for themselves what was really happening on the ground. Others enlisted in the military for college and employment benefits after recruiters promised they would not be sent to Vietnam.The Red Cross had sent teams of women overseas to work with troops since World War II. They served coffee and donuts, which earned them the nickname “Donut Dollies.” In 1965, fearing the impact on troop morale of what was already looking to be a long war, Defense Department officials asked the Red Cross to establish an S.R.A.O. program in Vietnam. From 1965 through 1972, nearly 630 women served in Vietnam through the program. Some staffed recreation centers on large bases where servicemen could shoot pool, listen to music, read, play games, write letters, or sit and talk. Others traveled, usually by helicopter, to fire support bases in remote areas where troops waited to go into battle. S.R.A.O. women traveled in pairs and brought with them games, snacks, soda and juice.In the pre-departure training session, Red Cross instructors told the women that they were meant to be a “touch of home” for the troops, a reminder of wives, girlfriends, mothers and sisters. They should be the girl next door — cute, friendly and caring. Not sexual. Their powder-blue dresses projected a perky innocence but were impractical in Vietnam’s heat, dust and mud. Most of the women were in their early 20s, a few years older than the average enlisted man.Smiling was a job requirement for Donut Dollies, so they had to compartmentalize their own fear and sadness about the war. Many grew close to the men they worked with. Emily Strange, a Donut Dolly who was stationed in the Mekong Delta with the Ninth Infantry Division and Mobile Riverine Force, became friends with a soldier named Michael Stacy. She had become close with Stacy because they both played guitar, and they often strummed folk tunes together. But after he died in a helicopter crash in March 1969, she realized that she needed to put distance between herself and the guys she worked with. So she stopped learning their names, and stopped becoming their friends.Long after the war, she says she believed that there were probably guys she had encountered whose names went onto the Vietnam Wall. But she would not have to face the pain of knowing for sure. It was Ms. Strange’s job to make lonely, frightened soldiers feel better, and she had to show up and do her job despite the fear and isolation she herself felt. She called it putting on her “Eleanor Rigby” face that she kept in a jar by the door.Of the military women who served in the war, the majority, about 5,000, did so through the Army Nurse Corps. They were there from the beginning: As the historian Kara Dixon Vuic has shown, the Army began deploying nurses to Saigon in 1956 to train Vietnamese nurses. As the war deepened, they had the double duty of treating the physical wounds of servicemen, and sometimes Vietnamese civilians, and offering an emotional salve to injured and dying troops. Some nurses held men as they cried out for their parents and took their last breaths. They broke the news that a man would never walk or see again. Literally and figuratively, nurses carried wounded servicemen across the threshold from combat to a drastically altered life, or death.Some nurses wore perfume because it reminded their patients of home. In a military hospital in a war zone, it was at once utterly incongruous and a desperately needed bit of normalcy. Lynda Van Devanter, a nurse whose memoir, “Home Before Morning,” was the inspiration for the television drama “China Beach,” wore ribbons in her hair to uphold the feminine image her patients expected and needed. At the same time, she suppressed her emotions and steeled herself to cope with the mental burden of being soothing and pretty to broken and dying men.Linda Pugsley was a 22-year-old registered nurse working at Boston City Hospital when she joined the Air Force in 1967. She went through basic training and flight school and was commissioned a second lieutenant. At the time, she had no political feelings about the Vietnam War, but she wanted to help take care of American servicemen who were injured there. She figured she could handle it, with good reason: A weekend shift at Boston City Hospital usually included gunshot and stab wounds, car wrecks and other sorts of bloody trauma.Nothing could have prepared her for Vietnam, though. The varieties of wounds, the constant low roar of injured, maimed and dying men, the thrum of helicopters bringing in still more wounded men, at times it almost became too much. Like Ms. Strange, Ms. Pugsley eventually stopped learning the names of her patients as a coping mechanism.After nurses, the next largest number of servicewoman who went to Vietnam deployed with the Women’s Army Corps. Like nurses, the first WACs went to Vietnam to train personnel in South Vietnam’s Women’s Armed Forces Corps. About 700 WACs served in the war, mostly in clerical jobs, but that did not shield them from combat.Linda McClenahan grew up in Berkeley, Calif., and joined the WAC after her high school bus was rerouted one day because of an antiwar protest. She worked in the Army’s communications center from 1969 through 1970, and one of her jobs was to process casualty reports. She often was one of the first to read the names of men who were killed in action. Lt. Col. Janie Miller, a career WAC who served in Korea and Vietnam, managed an Army mortuary in Saigon. She rotated her staff through every three months because of the work’s emotional toll. When Pinkie Houser, a WAC who volunteered for Vietnam in 1968, lost her commanding officer in battle, she processed his records and sent his personal effects to his family. It was one of the hardest things she had to do during the war.Combat, that traumatic, life-shattering, experience of war, remains central to the American memory of the Vietnam War. Women who served in Vietnam were small in number compared with the men who served, but because of that, their exposure to combat and its consequences was concentrated. They were there to help lighten the burden of servicemen, but they had to be so much to so many, without any release for themselves.
BARCELONA — Are the interests of citizens in a democratic parliament debatable? This is what is at stake in Catalonia, where parliamentary deputies demand the right to exercise their freedom of speech, while the Spanish government says they must accept being censored.Last July, the Catalonian Parliament debated a report on the road map to independence in Catalonia, and voted on it. Afterward, the state prosecutor filed a complaint that charged me with contempt of court and neglect of duty. My crime was simply to fulfill my duties as president of the Parliament in allowing a debate that had been requested by a majority in the chamber.This is just one more example of the Spanish government’s strategy of using judicial measures to interfere in the political affairs of Catalonia. And because this government is unable to resolve political challenges through politics, it is using a politicized court system to silence dissent and democratic debate.What is happening in Catalonia is a judicial assault by Spain on Catalonian democracy and freedom of speech, an assault that violates the principle of the separation of powers that is the foundation of the rule of law in this country.This violation was denounced as far back as 2010 in a manifesto signed by 1,400 judges, which warned of an excessive politicization and loss of independence in Spain’s judicial branch. In 2014, three Spanish judicial associations warned the United Nations special rapporteur that several initiatives of the Spanish government were “eroding the principle of separation of powers.”Catalan elected officials who favor independence are now the target. More than 400 town and city councilors, and mayors, have been charged with offenses because of their legitimate advocacy for independence. The previous president and other members of the Catalonian government are to be put on trial merely for organizing a public consultation in 2014 on independence in which more than 2.3 million Catalans participated. Their crime was setting up polling stations so that citizens could express their democratic views.Aware of the negative publicity its measures have received abroad, the Spanish government has tried to improve its image by rolling out a program called “Operation Dialogue.” This cosmetic initiative, devoid of content, is discredited with every new charge or arrest. Spain’s turn toward judicial authoritarianism continues unchecked.When the pro-independence Scottish National Party won the 2011 parliamentary elections and formed a government in Scotland, Britain’s prime minister at the time, David Cameron, understood the magnitude of the challenge — and solved it through politics. He agreed with the government of Scotland that it would hold a referendum on independence. The independence movement lost this referendum, in 2014, by 45 percent to 55 percent, but democracy was the winner.As is true of Scottish nationalism, Catalan politics and society have a profoundly pro-European character — very different from the Euroskeptic movements that have championed Brexit and from the demands of the far-right populists who are increasingly making their mark on the European Union.Britain’s approach toward Scottish independence also contrasts sharply with the Spanish government’s toward Catalonia. Although the independence movement won 48 percent of the vote and an absolute majority in Parliament in Catalonia’s 2015 elections, the Spanish government has shunned negotiation. Instead, it has bet all its chips on repression. The Spanish government’s restrictive interpretation of the Constitution, which ought to be the guarantor of citizens’ rights and freedoms, has turned it into a shield against dialogue.Catalonia’s Parliament is a pluralistic assembly that reflects the diversity of Catalan society and permits the expression of all voices and opinions. There, those in favor of independence and those against it — both legitimate options — can debate and vote freely. That is why Catalonia will draw a line in the sand in defense of its parliamentary freedom.The solution to the situation is not to suppress debate, but to allow democratic, free and informed citizens to be heard. A recent poll showed that more than 80 percent of Catalans favor deciding their future through a referendum. This is, therefore, a majority demand that Catalonian institutions plan to carry out in September, even though the Spanish government has stonewalled and obstructed all efforts by Catalonia to reach an agreement on holding a vote.In December, before an examining magistrate, I argued that no court has the right to prevent talk of independence in the Parliament of Catalonia, any more than it could suppress discussion of any other subject of interest to citizens. We will not open our doors to censorship. We are committed to preserving the right of free expression for all deputies, no matter what they think and how they vote.This is the foundation of democracy and freedom, attained at such a high price in all democratic societies. “Liberty, when it begins to take root, is a plant of rapid growth,” George Washington wrote. True enough, but the fight for civil rights and liberties must be constant and unwavering, for history has shown how easy it is to lose them.
To the Editor:Re “Court Selection Expected Soon (So Is a Brawl)” (front page, Jan. 25): Here is where the Democrats fail to protect their constituency, with a pattern of being too reasonable, not willing to act as brutally as the Republicans, this time at the expense of the majority of Americans who reject President Trump’s positions.President Obama had every right early in his final year of the presidency to put forth a Supreme Court nominee, picking a mainstream, centrist candidate to whom the Republicans would not even grant a hearing. Yet Senator Chuck Schumer, the minority leader, is already giving up what shred of power the Democrats have by announcing that they will filibuster only nominees out of the legal mainstream, implying that Democrats will confirm a more mainstream Republican nominee.Safeguarding established rights and protections that a majority of Americans value is not playing tit for tat with nominations. It’s not petty. It’s a crucial fight for which elected Democrats must be unwavering in protecting women’s health rights, civil liberties and social justice safeguards. Fight for that seat to remain open. This is not a time to be reasonable.LISA SHOGLOWWeston, Conn.
More than 100 State Department employees have indicated they will sign a memorandum in coming days registering their opposition to President Trump’s travel ban through the department’s “dissent cable” system, an official mechanism created to voice dissent to policies.A draft of the memo, written by a midlevel officer in the State Department’s consular bureau, predicted that the ban on citizens of seven nations, and the indefinite suspension of the resettlement of Syrian refugees, would be “counterproductive” to its stated goal of enhancing national security.“This ban stands in opposition to the core American and constitutional values that we, as federal employees, took an oath to uphold,” the memo said, warning that the ban has the potential to increase anti-American sentiment among Muslims worldwide. The acting attorney general, Sally Yates, an Obama administration holdover, backed that view in a letter Monday to Justice Department lawyers, instructing them not to defend the order in court. Hours later, Mr. Trump fired Ms. Yates.“We have a special obligation,” the draft memo said, “to maintain an immigration system that is as free as possible from discrimination, that does not have an implied or actual religious tests, and that views individuals as individuals, not as part of stereotyped groups.”The memo warned that the ban would also alienate key allies in the Middle East, which could result in the United States losing access to “the intelligence and resources need[ed] to fight the root causes of terror abroad, before an attack occurs within our borders.” The writer noted that there were alternative ways to make traveler screening more comprehensive by strengthening existing protocols and information-sharing systems.The administration would be reckless to dismiss this warning from public servants who have spent their careers safeguarding American interests abroad. Their concerns are shared by lawmakers from both parties, several European leaders and top United Nations officials.In just a few days, the misguided order has disrupted the lives of hundreds of refugees, scholars and professionals, while providing jihadist groups with a propaganda bonanza. The members of the administration who set this initiative in motion may have thought it would make the country safer. By now, it has to have become apparent even to them that it is having the opposite effect.
To the Editor:Re “Trump Modifies Ban on Migrants as Outcry Grows” (front page, Jan. 30):I’m appalled at the utter ineptitude demonstrated by President Trump and his team in the chaotic development and rollout of his immigration order. This is the man who claimed he’d run government like a business and vaunted his management expertise. Only now do we ruefully understand he was apparently referring to his one-man-in-charge Trump enterprise and not the well-run American companies viewed as exemplars of sound management.By blindsiding so many stakeholders, from travelers in the air to immigration officers to Congress to entire countries, President Trump makes it appear that his purpose was primarily to portray himself as a man of action getting his way by fiat. That’s hardly the way to run a democratic government that works efficiently and effectively for its citizens.PAT POSTONKings Mountain, N.C.To the Editor:Re “Trashing America’s Ideals and Security” (editorial, Jan. 30):What was the rush? Our vetting of immigrants has kept us safe for over 15 years, since Sept. 11, 2001. The vetting is extreme, taking years for many who want to come here. And the vetting policies have been fine-tuned over the years.Now, all of a sudden, because it plays on people’s fears, President Trump decided that as of Jan. 27 we had to stop immigration from Muslim countries where he does not do business? Was there reason to think we were in imminent danger? Not that we have heard! Mr. Trump just used his pen to upend lives and give great P.R. to jihadist recruiters who have been saying all along that the United States is at war with Islam.CAROL F. ROYEPleasantville, N.Y.To the Editor:I am surprised by the negative reaction to President Trump’s ban on travel and immigration from countries with ties to terrorism. Of course, it is inevitable that there will be those travelers who will be caught in the cross hairs of an order for which they were not prepared. Nonetheless, every country has the right to protect itself, and right now the United States must effectively deal with the growing threats of terrorism from the countries on the ban list. This situation requires a different policy than our peacetime protocol for welcoming immigrants and visitors.Another way to look at this is that the burden does not lie with the United States, but with the countries with ties to terrorism. If they wish for their citizens to be welcomed abroad, then those governments need to eliminate terrorism within their borders. If not, then they will have to face the inevitable rejection from foreign governments whose first and foremost responsibility is to protect their citizens.I am most grateful that President Trump is taking the necessary action to protect our country.SIGNE WILSONSanta Barbara, Calif.To the Editor:“Visceral Fear, Dubious Cure” (news analysis, Jan. 29) says of the executive order on immigration: “Many experts believe the order’s unintended consequences will make the threat worse.”One of the unintended consequences is changing the role played by immigrants living in the United States, such as me. While traveling to our countries of origin, we act as freelance ambassadors for America. I have been trying to spread American values in Poland for 30 years. I had moral grounds to do it because I lived in a country that, I believed, boasted diversity, human rights and tolerance — a country that tried to learn from its mistakes. Today, for the first time, I no longer feel this way.Now, for the first time, I am joining protests in the United States. It seems as if the reason I left Poland in the first place — oppressive injustice — has caught up with me here.KATARZYNA WANDYCZ MORENOBrooklyn
This time a year ago, leaders of the old guard religious right were determined to stop Donald J. Trump from winning the Iowa caucuses. James Dobson, the founder and former president of Focus on the Family, and Tony Perkins, the president of the Family Research Council, joined Senator Ted Cruz as he campaigned in the state. Prominent female anti-abortion activists released an open letter, “Pro-Life Women Sound the Alarm: Donald Trump Is Unacceptable.” It cited, among other things, Mr. Trump’s former ownership of a casino strip club.Driving around Iowa that January, I heard Christian radio hosts rebuke Jerry Falwell Jr., the president of Liberty University, for giving his support to Mr. Trump.“Mr. Falwell, in light of Mr. Trump’s attacks on those he happens to dislike at the moment,” asked one, Michael L. Brown, in a plaintive open letter, “How can you point to his Christlike character?”What a difference a year makes.Once Mr. Trump seized the Republican nomination, religious conservatives realized that their only path to federal influence lay in a bargain with this profane, thrice-married Manhattan sybarite. So they got in line, ultimately proving to be Mr. Trump’s most loyal backers.When, last October, a recording emerged of Mr. Trump’s boasting to a TV host about grabbing women “by the pussy,” many secular conservatives urged him to step aside, but most of the religious right stayed true. Ralph Reed, the founder and chairman of the Faith and Freedom Coalition and head of Mr. Trump’s religious advisory board, argued that for people of faith, “a 10-year-old tape of a private conversation with a TV talk show host ranks pretty low on their hierarchy of their concerns.”In November, exit polls showed that Mr. Trump won 81 percent of white evangelicals, more than the born-again George W. Bush garnered in either of his races. Mr. Brown, the radio host, remained worried about Mr. Trump’s temperament, but saw the hand of God in his victory.“I believe Trump has been elected president by divine intervention,” he wrote on Nov. 9.Mr. Trump is known for failing to honor his debts, but in this case, he’s fully repaying his Christian conservative supporters. For all his flagrant sinfulness, he’s assembling a near-theocratic administration, his cabinet full of avowed enemies of church-state separation. His vice president, Mike Pence, agreed to address the March for Life in Washington, D.C., on Friday, becoming the highest administration official ever to appear at the annual anti-abortion event. And one of Mr. Trump’s first acts as president was to widely expand the so-called global gag rule on abortion.Past Republican administrations have imposed the rule on foreign organizations receiving American family planning funding, preventing them from discussing abortion with their clients or advocating abortion law liberalization. But George W. Bush specifically exempted from the rule his H.I.V./AIDS program, which would otherwise have been unlikely to meet its prevention and treatment targets. Mr. Trump, however, went right ahead with an executive order applying the rule to all recipients of American global health aid.There is a deep irony here. It was the religious right’s weakness, which meant it couldn’t play kingmaker in the primary, that made Mr. Trump’s nomination possible, but his victory has given the movement tremendous new power.The Christian right has been declared dead many times. Before this election, though, it truly seemed to be staggering toward the grave. According to the Pew Research Center, as of last April, barely a third of Republican voters who attended religious services weekly supported Mr. Trump. He had consistent evangelical support, but it tended to come from less strongly affiliated Christians — people who might identify as born again, but who weren’t connected to the congregations that once formed the building blocks of the religious right, and who didn’t take marching orders from the movement’s leaders.By winning the primary over the strenuous objections of prominent Christian conservatives, Mr. Trump revealed their diminishing sway. When those same leaders decided to champion him, they had to shrug off everything they’d ever said about the primacy of personal morality in politics. Had he lost, they’d have been utterly discredited.But Mr. Trump didn’t lose, and now the movement that helped deliver his victory faces a deliverance of its own. President Trump may lack a coherent ideology, but he shares with the religious right a kind of Christian identity politics, a sense that the symbols of Christianity, if not its virtues, deserve cultural precedence. As he said in a speech to the Faith and Freedom Coalition’s Road to Majority conference in June: “We will respect and defend Christian Americans. Christian Americans.”His personnel choices suggest he meant it. Consider Vice President Pence, a man who regularly tries to make policy obey the dictates of faith. In 2002, he gave a speech on the House floor criticizing public schools for teaching evolution but not creationism, even though creationism “was believed in by every signer of the Declaration of Independence.”Running for Congress in 2000, Mr. Pence called for federal AIDS funding to be directed to groups that “provide assistance to those seeking to change their sexual behavior,” which many have understood to mean gay-conversion therapy, though a spokesman has said this mischaracterized his intent. When in 2002, then Secretary of State Colin Powell endorsed the use of condoms to prevent sexually transmitted diseases, Mr. Pence argued (falsely) that they offer “very, very poor protection” and decried Mr. Powell’s support for them as “too modern of an answer.” He is, needless to say, a tireless foe of Planned Parenthood: In 2011, when the House voted to defund the family planning provider, the legislation was known as the Pence Amendment.Among senior members of the incoming administration, Mr. Pence is far from alone in opposing secular modernity. Jeff Sessions, Mr. Trump’s choice for attorney general, has said that the idea of a “wall of separation” between church and state “is not constitutional and is not historical.” He once attacked Justice Sonia Sotomayor for having a “postmodern, relativistic, secular mind-set” that is “directly contrary to the founding of our republic.” During Mr. Sessions’s confirmation hearing, Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, asked about his attitude toward the attorneys who will work for him at the Justice Department: “A secular person has just a good a claim to understanding the truth as a person who is religious, correct?” Mr. Sessions replied, “Well, I’m not sure.”Ben Carson, whom Mr. Trump has appointed to be secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, is similarly hostile to church-state separation, arguing that in taking God out of government, “secular progressives have succeeded de facto in redefining part of the Constitution.” Betsy DeVos, the president’s pick for education secretary, is a billionaire patron of the Christian right who once described her work on education reform as a way to “advance God’s kingdom.” High on her agenda is redirecting public education funds to religious schools.Mike Pompeo, now confirmed as C.I.A. director, sees America as a combatant in a religious war with Islam — a view shared by Mr. Trump’s appointee as national security adviser, the retired general Michael T. Flynn. “We will defend our Christian values and American exceptionalism with all our heart,” Mr. Pompeo said at a 2015 “God and Country” rally in Kansas. The battle for those values, he said, is “a never-ending struggle” — never ending, that is, “until the rapture.”Tom Price, Mr. Trump’s choice for secretary of Health and Human Services, has joined Mr. Pence in co-sponsoring bills granting full legal personhood to zygotes. As a Republican congressman from Georgia, Mr. Price has consistently received a 100 percent rating from the National Right to Life Committee.The resurrection of the politics of coercive piety will transform American life. Some shifts will happen through legislation. The president has promised to sign a bill defunding Planned Parenthood. He has indicated his backing for the reintroduction of a 2015 bill, the First Amendment Defense Act, which would protect those who discriminate against L.G.B.T. people for religious reasons. Mr. Trump has also promised to pick Supreme Court justices who will overturn Roe v. Wade; women’s constitutional right to an abortion may not survive his presidency.The Christianization of our government will also occur at an administrative level, just as it did during the Bush era, when the Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division was transformed.“The division is bringing fewer voting rights and employment cases involving systematic discrimination against African-Americans and more alleging reverse discrimination against whites and religious discrimination against Christians,” reported Charlie Savage, then with The Boston Globe (now at The Times), in 2006. Something similar can be expected under Mr. Sessions.Even agencies that don’t deal directly with issues of faith can be infused with religiosity. HUD, for example, regularly contracts with faith-based organizations; under Mr. Carson, more funds may be channeled through conservative Christian groups, with more latitude for proselytizing in government-funded buildings.With hindsight, Mr. Trump’s libertinism made him the perfect Trojan Horse for conservative values. Because he’s such an irreligious figure, social issues barely figured in the campaign. Even as Christian conservatives put their faith in Mr. Trump, opponents of the religious right’s agenda — which remains broadly unpopular — could convince themselves that Mr. Trump wouldn’t enact it.According to a pre-election survey, a slight plurality of Trump supporters, 48 percent, oppose defunding Planned Parenthood. Reporting for Slate after the election, I had the chance to watch a series of focus groups that Planned Parenthood convened with some of those voters. In Phoenix, a 58-year-old woman who was a staunch supporter of Planned Parenthood said she couldn’t imagine that Mr. Trump shared the religious right’s priorities.“He’s probably paid for a few abortions himself,” she said, provoking a peal of laughter.Presented with Mr. Pence’s history on reproductive rights, a 54-year-old man in the same focus group expressed astonishment.“I guess I’ve been living in a bubble,” he said.The religious right has been elevated to power without having to contest its ideas in an election. Sometimes, a deal with the devil pays off, big league.
To the Editor:“An Itchy Twitter Finger in the Oval Office” (news analysis, front page, Jan. 26) is a critical observation of Donald Trump’s behavior and its potential ramifications. These impulses, alternatively known as shooting from the hip, are a mainstay of his personality.His behavior, from the primaries to the presidency, has not shown any transmigration in style or substance. Like a laser, he locks onto a thought or belief and becomes tone deaf to other viewpoints or existing analysis. He rarely retreats from a position unless forced to by practical reasons or the potential for embarrassment.He alleged widespread voter fraud with no proof. When challenged, he was forced to order a study, which will be costly and will most likely yield no results to support his allegation.He is signing executive orders that resemble imperial fiats. He will soon learn the realities of legal challenges, congressional approval and the like as he goes forward. And the lesson will be simple. It’s called democracy.PHIL SERPICOKew Gardens, Queens
Less than a week into the job, President Trump on Thursday raised the specter of a trade war with America’s third-largest partner, Mexico, as the White House warned that the United States could impose a 20 percent tariff on Mexican imports.This absurd threat, issued as a proposal to cover the cost of a border wall, came just hours after President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico canceled a visit to the United States. The visit was supposed to improve the relationship between the two countries, deeply strained by Mr. Trump’s relentless scapegoating of Mexicans during his presidential campaign. But Mr. Peña Nieto decided he’d heard enough after Mr. Trump issued executive orders on Wednesday to begin rounding up unauthorized immigrants and building his border wall.The tariff tantrum was the latest in a head-spinning torrent of lies, dangerous policy ideas and threats from the White House since Mr. Trump was sworn in last Friday. They have underscored just how impulsive and apparently ignorant the new occupant of the Oval Office is of international economic and security relationships that serve American interests. His advisers appear unwilling to rein in his impulses or, as in the case of the tariff, hapless as they struggle to tamp them down.It’s hard to tell whether the animus Mr. Trump has conveyed toward immigrants, particularly Mexicans, is deeply felt, or if he simply came to recognize how powerfully it would appeal to voters disaffected by an uneven economic recovery and the nation’s demographic changes.But allowing this view to drive trade and foreign policy toward Mexico could have disastrous consequences for workers and consumers in both countries, given how tightly intertwined the two economies have become since the North American Free Trade Agreement went into effect in 1994.Nafta eliminated most tariffs and other trade barriers among Canada, Mexico and the United States, creating a continent-size market. The agreement led to production chains for cars, planes and other items that straddle borders and provide millions of jobs. Work that requires cheaper labor typically occurs in Mexico, where earnings are lower, while design, engineering and advanced manufacturing tends to take place in Canada and the United States.Imposing a tariff on Mexico would mean pulling out of Nafta, a move that would severely disrupt the flow of parts and goods across North America and stall production in factories in the United States and Canada. It also could lead to shortages of fresh vegetables and fruits in American grocery stores and drive up the cost of many other consumer goods from Mexico. Mexico’s economy, which is hugely dependent on American trade, would be devastated. But American businesses and workers would stand to suffer immediate harm as well. Mexico would retaliate with tariffs of its own. And no matter how Congress tried to structure the tariff, which would require legislation, it would probably still violate World Trade Organization rules.Mr. Trump has pointed to America’s trade deficit with Mexico as a sign that the United States is being swindled. Trade with Mexico — imports to the United States totaled $296 billion in 2015 — benefits America by lowering the cost and increasing the availability of goods, like avocados and mangoes in winter. While the trade deficit with Mexico has resulted in job losses in some industries (possibly about 700,000 jobs in the first 16 years), a 2014 study estimates that 1.9 million American jobs depend on exports to Mexico. And trade, by raising wages and the standard of living in Mexico, is a big reason that illegal immigration from Mexico has dropped steadily over the years.Sending the Mexican economy into a tailspin is the surest way to reverse that trend, which historically has been driven by market forces, and has never been deterred much by fences or walls. Besides, a tax on Mexican imports would be paid by American consumers and businesses that buy those goods. Americans would pay for the wall, not Mexicans.
First, reflect on the cruelty of President Trump’s decision on Friday to indefinitely suspend the resettlement of Syrian refugees and temporarily ban people from seven predominantly Muslim nations from entering the United States. It took just hours to begin witnessing the injury and suffering this ban inflicts on families that had every reason to believe they had outrun carnage and despotism in their homelands to arrive in a singularly hopeful nation.The first casualties of this bigoted, cowardly, self-defeating policy were detained early Saturday at American airports just hours after the executive order, ludicrously titled “Protecting the Nation From Foreign Terrorist Entry Into the United States,” went into effect. A federal judge in Brooklyn on Saturday evening issued an emergency stay, ordering that those stuck at the airports not be returned to their home countries. But the future of all the others subject to the executive order is far from settled.It must have felt like the worst trick of fate for these refugees to hit the wall of Donald Trump’s political posturing at the very last step of a yearslong, rigorous vetting process. This ban will also disrupt the lives and careers of potentially hundreds of thousands of immigrants who have been cleared to live in America under visas. On Saturday, as mass protests against that ban were held in various cities, the White House scaled back the reach of the policy, though not by much, exempting legal permanent residents.That the order, breathtaking in scope and inflammatory in tone, was issued on Holocaust Remembrance Day spoke of the president’s callousness and indifference to history, to America’s deepest lessons about its own values.The order lacks any logic. It invokes the attacks of Sept. 11 as a rationale, while exempting the countries of origin of all the hijackers who carried out that plot and also, perhaps not coincidentally, several countries where the Trump family does business. The document does not explicitly mention any religion, yet it sets a blatantly unconstitutional standard by excluding Muslims while giving government officials the discretion to admit people of other faiths.The order’s language makes clear that the xenophobia and Islamophobia that permeated Mr. Trump’s campaign are to stain his presidency as well. Un-American as they are, they are now American policy. “The United States must ensure that those admitted to this country do not bear hostile attitudes toward it and its founding principles,” the order says, conveying the spurious notion that all Muslims should be considered a threat. (It further claims to spare America from people who would commit acts of violence against women and those who persecute people on the basis of race, gender or sexual orientation. A president who bragged about sexually assaulting women and a vice president who has supported policies that discriminate against gay people might well fear that standard themselves.)The unrighteousness of this new policy should be enough to prompt the courts, Congress and responsible members of Mr. Trump’s cabinet to reverse it immediately. But there is an even more compelling reason: It is extremely dangerous. Extremist groups will trumpet this order to spread the notion, today more credible than ever, that the United States is at war with Islam rather than targeting terrorists. They want nothing more than a fearful, recklessly belligerent America; so, if anything, this ban will heighten their efforts to strike at Americans, to provoke yet further overreaction from a volatile and inexperienced president.American allies in the Middle East will reasonably question why they should cooperate with, and defer to, the United States while its top officials vilify their faith. Afghans and Iraqis supporting American military operations would be justified in reassessing the merits of taking enormous risks for a government that is bold enough to drop bombs on their homelands but too frightened to provide a haven to their most vulnerable compatriots, and perhaps to them as well. Republicans in Congress who remain quiet or tacitly supportive of the ban should recognize that history will remember them as cowards.There may be no one better positioned to force a suspension of this policy than Mr. Trump’s secretary of defense, Jim Mattis. Mr. Mattis was clear-eyed about the dangers of a proposed Muslim ban during the election, saying that American allies were reasonably wondering if “we have lost faith in reason.” He added: “This kind of thing is causing us great damage right now, and it’s sending shock waves through this international system.”His silence now is alarming to all who admire his commitment to American security. Mr. Mattis and other senior government officials who know better cannot lend their names to this travesty. Doing so would do more than tarnish their professional reputations. It would make them complicit in abdicating American values and endangering their fellow citizens.
To the Editor:Among the ill-advised (that is, harmful, dangerous, foolish) proposals that President Trump is setting in motion, ending the National Endowment for the Arts (a speck in the national budget!) has to be the silliest.The government now provides modest arts support to almost every county in the United States, bringing opportunity to learn exciting new things and achieve a sense of accomplishment and a portion of delight and happiness to millions of us.Won’t sustaining the arts and our cultural life help make America great again?JOAN K. DAVIDSONNew YorkThe writer is a former chairwoman of the New York State Council on the Arts.
The air in much of Wilmington, at the southern tip of Los Angeles, has a fetid, tarry scent, but Giselle Cabrera can’t smell it anymore. Sixteen years old, she’s lived in the neighborhood her whole life, and she no longer notices the stench of pollutants from hundreds of oil wells.She does, however, notice the persistent cough she’s been fighting for five months; the asthma that affects her, her mother and her sister; and the cancer rate in her neighborhood, one of the highest in Southern California.Even in Los Angeles, a place with over 1,000 oil wells, Wilmington, a working-class neighborhood where a majority of residents are Latino, stands out for the proximity of wells to homes, playgrounds and schools. One large rig stands next to a field where Little League teams play. Pumpjacks operate on residential streets, next door to homes. Ms. Cabrera lives a block away from a drilling site.Wells on the city’s wealthier west side tend to be farther away from homes and are more likely to be enclosed to reduce pollution. Health risks like asthma, cancer and other ailments tend to rise with proximity to drilling sites.In 2015, Youth for Environmental Justice, of which Ms. Cabrera is a member, and other groups, sued Los Angeles. The suit said the city had permitted drilling without performing required environmental reviews, not only in Wilmington but also South Los Angeles, a low-income area where most residents are black or Latino.Last year, the city settled after adopting new procedures for reviewing drilling applications. The California Independent Petroleum Association, which represents oil companies, countersued to block the settlement in a clear attempt to avoid stricter environmental requirements.Under the proposed reforms, the city would hold a public hearing and conduct an evaluation of potential health and environmental consequences for each new drilling project, and require oil companies to mitigate any health hazards.These are useful ideas but they fall short of the specific steps other cities and states have taken. Pennsylvania, for instance, bans drilling within 200 feet of a building, and unconventional gas drilling, including hydraulic fracturing, within 500 feet. In 2013, Dallas passed an ordinance banning drilling within 1,500 feet of homes. Scientists believe most air pollutants dissipate within about half a mile, or 2640 feet, from a drilling site.Ultimately, a switch to renewable sources of energy is the only way to eliminate the effects of drilling on human health and the global climate. Last year, the Los Angeles City Council directed the Department of Water and Power to study how the city might make such a switch.In the meantime, a buffer zone law would give people like Ms. Cabrera a measure of protection. “I don’t think it’s fair that our communities are suffering through this just because of our income and our ethnicity,” said Ms. Cabrera. “We deserve to have healthy communities too.”
MANILA — President Rodrigo Duterte is taking his brutal campaign against drugs from the streets to the halls of Congress.He had said he would be “happy to slaughter” drug addicts, and since he took office in June, some 7,000 people have been killed in drug-related operations, according to the Philippine National Police. Now he proposes to reinstate the death penalty, which was abolished here in 2006.A new bill, up for discussion in the House of Representatives this week, proposes to restore capital punishment for 21 so-called heinous crimes. Those include treason, some forms of murder and rape, and violent car thefts — as well as nine drug offenses. If the act passes, the import, sale, manufacture, cultivation or possession of drugs, even in quantities as low as 10 grams for methamphetamines or marijuana oil, will all be punishable by death.With Congress now back in session, the proposal could pass the full House in a matter of weeks. To become law, the bill would then have to be approved by the Senate and be signed by the president.It must be stopped now.The Philippines’s history with the death penalty is painful and complicated. Spanish colonizers used it to put down uprisings in the late 1800s; Ferdinand Marcos, the dictator who ruled the country for two decades, used it to instill fear, sometimes by broadcasting executions.Just a year after Mr. Marcos’s ouster in 1986, the Philippines became the first country in Asia to abolish capital punishment. The death penalty was reinstated in 1993, in response to the perception that crime was on the rise. It was abolished again in 2006, after a sustained campaign by a broad coalition including the Catholic Church and human rights groups. In 2007, the Philippines ratified the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, committing itself under international law to renounce capital punishment.Mr. Duterte wants it back anyway. But what will an administration that openly condones extrajudicial killings do with state-sanctioned executions? The president has reportedly announced that he wants to put “five or six” prisoners to death every day if capital punishment is reinstated.And the Philippines’s previous experiences with the death penalty show that its application has been excessive, ridden with errors and unfair to marginalized populations.Death sentences were handed out liberally in the past. Thanks to lobbying by the Church and others, only a few executions took place, but in 2006, when capital punishment was abolished (again), at least 1,200 individuals were on death row in the Philippines.Judicial mistakes and other irregularities were legion. In its 2004 decision in The People of the Philippines v. Efren Mateo y Garcia, the Supreme Court noted that death sentences had been wrongly imposed in nearly 72 percent of the 907 death-penalty cases it had reviewed since 1993. In a 2004 study, more than 45 percent of inmates on death row claimed to have been tortured by the police.Capital punishment has a disproportionate impact on the poor: More than 73 percent of people on death row before 2006 earned less than 10,000 pesos a month (the equivalent of about $190 then), according to the Free Legal Assistance Group, a local NGO. The poor are particularly vulnerable to wrongful convictions and other problems because they can rarely afford to hire competent lawyers.Minors and the mentally handicapped are also at risk, despite protections written into the law. Reports by Amnesty International and the Commission on Human Rights of the Philippines from the late 1990s and early 2000s found that, due to poor record-keeping and police procedures, several death-row inmates had been minors at the time of their alleged crimes. Marlon Parazo, a deaf-mute and mentally challenged man, was sentenced to death in 1995 even though he had not been capable of understanding the charges or the proceedings against him. His sentence was eventually overturned thanks to pressure from human rights groups, but there is no way to know for sure how many other disabled prisoners have been wrongfully convicted.There is also no reason to think that these fundamental flaws in the Philippines’s criminal justice system have been fixed. Discrimination and lack of due process in criminal cases remain serious concerns. Corruption is rampant.And then there is the broader question of effectiveness, and whether capital punishment actually deters crime. In 1999, when the first executions since the end of the Marcos era took place, the number of crimes reported nationwide increased by more than 15 percent. In 2007, after the death penalty was abolished, reported crimes dropped by more than 7 percent.It’s possible to be tough on crime without capital punishment. On the other hand, given the judicial system’s flaws and the current political climate, reinstating it today would be like encouraging state-sanctioned murder. Members of the Philippine Congress, the Church and human rights groups here and abroad must rally to block this bill: No death penalty in the Philippines.
Egypt’s future lies at the end of a brand-new asphalt road that arcs through the Eastern Desert, a grand project wrapped in a few pieces of ragged tarpaulin and framed by an enormous sky. The landscape is part sci-fi dystopia, part Wild West; the silhouettes of oversize wheels and pile drivers grind slowly against the horizon, while strange pods and skeletal boxes rise from the sand.“Our aim is to build a new Egypt,” Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, the military general turned dictator, told the United Nations soon after his rise to formal power in 2014. At the heart of this new Egypt — as imagined by the country’s leadership — are the beginnings of a new Egyptian capital, constructed from scratch in the dunes some 30 miles east of Cairo’s city center.So far there is little to see but fragments: the outlines of a restaurant complex, the foundations of a mall, an army-owned hotel clad in wooden scaffolding. Each section is managed by a different conglomerate of companies, most of which are enmeshed with the higher echelons of the state. The only completed element appears to be the ceremonial platform from which Mr. Sisi will one day inaugurate his alternative metropolis, a stony mound thrust high into the air that overlooks a neat grid of parking spaces and helipads in the foreground, and emptiness beyond.From some angles, the platform projects solidity and permanence; try to fit it in with its surroundings, however, and it looks like a rickety stage set that could collapse in an unexpected gust of wind. I clambered up the steps and across the plastic sheeting with an Egyptian colleague. “We are building our home in the apocalypse,” he said eventually, after staring around him in silence for some time.Six years after the start of the revolution that toppled President Hosni Mubarak and sent the Arab world’s most populous nation into turmoil, Egypt’s foundations are less secure than they might first appear. True, the trappings of old-school authoritarianism are more in evidence now than ever — from the 60,000 political prisoners believed to be languishing behind bars to the spate of forced disappearances to the government crackdown on authors, journalists, cartoonists and human rights defenders. Unauthorized protest is illegal, and a sweeping antiterrorism law gives the state the power to designate anybody it doesn’t like as a militant. Tired regime survival tool kits have been sharpened with fresh intensity.Certainly to his many Western allies, including President Trump — who has described his Egyptian counterpart as a “fantastic guy” and accepted a congratulatory phone call from him on election night, ahead of any other foreign leader — Mr. Sisi appears to be a recognizable face in an increasingly unrecognizable region: the Middle Eastern strongman offering a binary choice between tyranny and chaos.The reality is different. Egypt’s 2011 revolution was not an aberration that can now be buried under tons of cement, but rather the first manifestation of an extraordinary historical moment in Egypt. Its central fault line is a struggle over whether politics is to remain the preserve of elites, or whether the defenses around the existing model of power can be swept away by a tide of popular sovereignty from below. This struggle has deep roots, and it has now been out in the open for more than half a decade. It will continue, in different forms, for many years to come.Mr. Sisi’s ruling project, which justifies itself with an appeal to stability, is curiously unstable: It lurches from crisis to crisis, each revealing new cracks in the architecture of political authority, each accompanied by new levels of official violence as part of a futile attempt to beat the state’s contradictions back into submission.The regime cultivates a chauvinistic nationalism intended to increase its legitimacy, but at the same time is dependent on financial support from regional allies. When one of those allies, Saudi Arabia, demands the settlement of a land dispute through the transfer of islands in the Red Sea, the government acquiesces — prompting thousands of Egyptians to take to the streets in anger. The regime promises social justice but presides over an economy in which inflation is rampant, austerity is biting and living standards plummeting.The regime insists its curtailing of democratic freedoms is necessary because of a war against radical Islamists, but security lapses continue and the perpetual need to conjure up fresh demons means that some of the most popular figures in the country — most recently the soccer legend Mohamed Aboutrika — end up on the terrorist watch list. The regime attempts to prove to the international community that it is open for business, but then flounders in a morass of conspiracy theories when the body of Giulio Regeni, a young Italian Ph.D. student, is found on the side of a highway, his nails and skin marked with signs of torture.Like Mr. Trump, Mr. Sisi is reigning over the ashes of a broken political order; more so than Mr. Trump, however, he is a creature of that broken order and incapable of articulating the new. Egypt’s younger generation, weaned on television images of barricades and tear gas, and veterans of their own personal battles with patriarchs in the classroom, mosque, factory floor and family dining room, do not accept the status quo as immutable.“The future now seems very vague and foggy,” a young activist named Tarek Hussein told me late last year, “but we won’t abandon the fight to make it our own.” Mr. Hussein’s peers live out Egypt’s paradoxes on a daily basis: He was incarcerated under the former Muslim Brotherhood president, Mohamed Morsi, for allegedly opposing the government, and then again under Mr. Sisi for allegedly being a member of the Muslim Brotherhood. I met him in a downtown Cairo cafe in the company of his younger brother, Mahmoud, who as a teenager spent more than 700 days imprisoned without charge for the crime of wearing a T-shirt emblazoned with the slogan “Nation without torture.”“When I was eventually released, they told me I should go home and keep quiet,” Mahmoud said. “But here I am.”Our conversation was interrupted by the arrival of what appeared to be a police informant, listening in and occasionally muttering into a phone. Tarek and Mahmoud, used to navigating the complexities of Mr. Sisi’s Egypt, deftly steered us outside so that we could continue talking elsewhere. The future they want to create is irreconcilable with the one represented by the police informant, and the system that sponsors him; the future Egyptian capital in the Eastern Desert, with its neatly demarcated segments of conventional authority and V.I.P. parking for those with private helicopters, is incompatible with the messy, contested Cairo from which the Hussein brothers have emerged.No one knows what twists and turns will come next in Egypt’s era of unrest, but it is clear that stasis is not a long-term option. “For these kids, the revolution was a new parent, something that brought them into the adult world and would make them, and which they believed they would eventually remake in turn,” a friend who teaches political sociology to undergraduates at a major Egyptian university said recently. “They are the orphans of the revolution, and they will never be content with life as it stands.”The future is indeed vague and foggy, far more so than the confident proclamations of Egypt’s rulers suggest. And who will shape that future remains fundamentally up for grabs. Driving back from the ceremonial platform to the main road, we passed a group of day laborers huddled around a fire. Behind them loomed pieces of a huge wall, more than 20 feet high, which is intended to eventually encircle the new city.“This is Sisi’s wall, and Sisi’s capital,” one of the workers grinned when I asked him about it, jerking his finger at the construction site. “Everywhere else is Egypt.”
Nearly everyone outside the White House agrees that the Women’s March on Washington on Jan. 21 drew far larger crowds than the inauguration the day before. People marched in more than 600 locations around the world, on every continent, even Antarctica. Even the most conservative estimate — 3.3 million marchers in the United States — would make it the largest protest in the nation’s history.Two weeks after the election, I examined lessons from successful protest movements. (It’s a good time to restate that the Constitution enshrines the right to peaceful protest.) Sam Daley-Harris, a longtime organizer of citizen movements, calls the current fervor for activism against President Trump and his policies “extraordinarily unusual.” The Women’s Marches were an astonishing start.The many airport demonstrations against the barring of citizens of seven largely Muslim countries from entering the United States show that people are determined to speak out against specific Trump decisions. So let’s look at what past movements have to say to the question, What now?Diversify your tacticsThere’s a lot more to nonviolent struggle than marching. A list of 198 methods of nonviolent action has been drawn up by Gene Sharp, an academic who is a master strategist of nonviolent struggle. And Nonviolent Struggle: 50 Crucial Points is a fun-to-read primer that has more ideas.Marches are useful for the anti-Trump movement because numbers are one of its advantages. But marches have their shortcomings. “Marches and parades are, in effect, symbolic gestures,” said Retired Colonel Robert Helvey, a scholar and teacher of strategic nonviolence. They can recruit and inspire. But they are infrequent, special events. And they are too sweeping to achieve the series of specific locally won victories the movement needs. And for the anti-Trump demonstrations, they have been mostly in the wrong places. (More about this later.)PlanI mentioned this point in the November Fixes column because it’s so important. Anyone good at planning — and protest needs to be planned, as carefully as a war — knows to start with the goal and work backward. What specific change is being sought? What steps are needed to get there? No military leader would stage a spontaneous assault. Nor should any nonviolent leader. The bus boycotts and sit-ins in the American South, the Egyptian protests in Tahrir Square — those were the visible tips of an iceberg, hiding months or years of training and planning.Pull out the pillarsAll leaders rely on the loyalty of important groups in society. The job of a protest movement is to pull out the leader’s essential pillars of support — turn his most influential supporters into opponents.Who are President Trump’s pillars? He needs members of Congress to pass his legislation. One good goal for the opposition is to make them think: “Trump is a very unpopular guy, and this policy has a lot of opposition. I, too, will be unpopular if I go along with him. Maybe I’ll even face a primary challenge.”Who has the power to do that? Representatives care about pressure from their constituents.FocusThe Women’s March movement is now suggesting one action to take each week. The first one is “pour your heart out on any issue that you care about” on a postcard, post a photo of it on social media and send it via snail mail to your member of Congress.Despite its good intentions, this is not an effective tactic.A better example can be found in a nationwide “What now?” phone call staged the last two Sundays by MoveOn.org and other liberal groups. The first one had more than 20,000 listeners — a recording of the call is here. In that call, founders of a new organization, Indivisible, offered tactical advice. They are Democratic former congressional staff members who learned from the Tea Party’s successful opposition to much of the Obama agenda.Their lessons: Talk only about the issues before Congress right now. And while pouring your heart out may feel good, it’s your political pressure that matters, not your policy analysis.Get off-line and show up“Online work is only useful for organizing off-line work,” said a veteran organizer, Sam Daley-Harris, who leads the Center for Citizen Empowerment and Transformation.“The closer you can get to your member of Congress, the better,” said Angel Padilla, a founder of Indivisible. In the MoveOn call, organizers asked people to visit the district offices of their representative and senators every Tuesday. “An office visit is better than a call. A call is better than a letter,” Padilla said. What if your representative is already on board? Visit anyway. People like to be thanked. And tell her to do more.Create an inclusive brandLarge crowds in big cities, as impressive as they are, are not persuasive in Trump country. Members of Congress care about what their districts think, not what the country thinks. And much of Trump’s support was a protest against elite urban liberals. This means finding a theme that can work in red states.John Jackson, a strategist who has helped to develop many campaigns for human rights or workers rights, cites this strategy as a turning point for the American campaign for gay marriage. “It was mobilizing its own communities and speaking to its own communities,” he said. “Then it began mobilizing family, friends and colleagues of gay people. It seems obvious now, but hadn’t been tried before.”Another example was the 2,000 veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars who went to Standing Rock to join protests against the Dakota oil pipeline. Unexpected allies confound the other side.An anti-Trump campaign theme should be whatever the largest possible group can agree on. (Perhaps something like: Respect Is an American Value.) “Build a narrative that isn’t a ‘Liberal vs. Conservative’ narrative but a ‘Trump vs. America’ narrative,” Jackson said.Promote hope, not fearOne movement that did this right was the anti-Pinochet movement in Chile. After 15 years of doing almost everything wrong, the opposition seized its moment in 1988, when the dictator held a plebiscite: A “yes” vote meant eight more years, a “no” vote meant free elections the next year.Pinochet was masterful at using fear; his constant theme was “me or chaos.” The opposition countered with a dogged voter registration drive, and then a brilliant ad campaign: a rainbow-and-flowers montage showing attractive, smiling young people, set to a bouncy original pop song called “Happiness Is On Its Way” that I still can’t get out of my head nearly 30 years later.That upbeat theme came out of extensive focus groups. “Progressives normally win battles when they are able to put future and hope in the center of the debate,” said Srdja Popovic, an organizer of Serbia’s anti-Milosevic campaign, who now trains democracy movements around the world.He cited Brexit, Britan’s vote to leave the European Union. Fear of immigrants and European Union bureaucrats was the theme of the Leave campaign. The Remain campaign focused on how much Britain would lose if it left. With both sides using fear, Leave won.Delegitimize, with factsAnother tactic is to create a “birther” movement, but one based on truth. The false allegation that Barack Obama was not American-born — peddled by Trump, among others — “really delegitimized Obama,” Jackson said. He suggested focusing on Trump’s (palpably true) lack of mandate as a way to both cut into his authority and bring out the kinds of behavior that allows him to delegitimize himself — for example, his bizarre lies about illegal voting and the size of his crowds.Build on small, concrete actionsPopovic likes to compare a movement to certain sharks, which must keep moving forward to breathe. A successful movement is a series of small victories, at each point gaining people, skills, power and momentum. Popovic’s movement, Otpor, used this strategy, growing through successful street actions. Intrigued onlookers joined, and were trained and then sent out to do more street actions.This was something the Occupy movement failed to do; it never tried to win anything winnable. “You need to choose a financial, corporate target and show them you have power,” Jackson said. Occupy could have aimed its protests at getting a bank to reverse foreclosures, for example. “If you never have any small victories you can amplify into bigger ones, people will drop off.”The other value of working small and local is that it reaches people who aren’t motivated by grand causes like civil rights. Harvey Milk had two big issues in his brief tenure on San Francisco’s board of supervisors. One, of course, was gay rights. The other was cleaning up dog poop. Finding allies does not get more down to earth than that.As an obvious example, the goal shouldn’t be “Keep the Environmental Protection Agency strong.” It should be “Protect our local water supply.” Protesters, rightly, aren’t saying, “Keep Obamacare.” They’re saying, “Protect my health care.” Their voices are of local people who are really sick and stand to lose their health insurance, and local institutions like churches that have their back.Create a citizens’ lobbyIn 1980, Daley-Harris founded Results, with the mission of recruiting, training and supporting ordinary people to lobby Congress to reduce hunger and poverty. (He went on to teach his methods to the Citizens Climate Lobby and other groups.)Results secured a huge funding increase for vaccines and other anti-poverty programs. That in turn led to more investment from other countries. You may have heard that extreme poverty around the world has declined from 44 percent in 1990 to under 10 percent today. Results’ work is one reason.Daley-Harris trains volunteers to be nonpartisan and nonconfrontational. Their approach to Democrats and Republicans alike is “We want you to be our hero.”Create a Tea PartyA Tea Party that’s truthful, nonracist, respectful and nonviolent, that is.Indivisible’s leaders aim for a Tea Party of the left. Like Daley-Harris, they believe that the most important action is persuading members of Congress and that people need training, support and a community to do it.But instead of “Be our hero,” their message is “We’re taking names.” As the Tea Party did, this group is warning members of Congress that going along with Trump will bring on protests and primary opponents.The Tea Party also ran get-out-the-vote operations, and recruited and trained candidates for local offices — all crucial today.“Not a lot of people were represented by the Tea Party,” Jackson said. “They were very, very strategic — they campaigned locally and built local coalitions. They made it really difficult and very costly for members of Congress to do anything other than what they wanted them to do.”Could that happen today? “Barack Obama had a clear and large mandate. He was popular and had a large majority in Congress,” Jackson said. “Now we have a president who is not popular even in his own party, who got 25 percent of those eligible to vote. This could be a massively bigger movement than the Tea Party. This could make the Tea Party look small.”
Some congressional Republicans are calling on President Trump to summarily fire Richard Cordray, the director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Their push to remove Mr. Cordray, whose term runs until July 2018, is the latest of many attempts to weaken the bureau, which date back to its creation in 2010 under the Dodd-Frank financial reform law.This time around, however, Republican foes of the bureau are assuming they have a willing ally in the White House. While Mr. Trump has not fully disabused them of that notion, he has sent them a “not so fast” signal: Last week, his press secretary, Sean Spicer, told reporters that “no decision has been made at this time” about Mr. Cordray’s position.Mr. Trump would be smart to go against lawmakers and let Mr. Cordray serve out his term. That would be the right thing to do and consistent with his campaign promises to defend Americans against a system he says has “robbed our working class.”The consumer bureau is the only federal agency with the sole mission of looking out for the interests of ordinary Americans in their dealings with banks and other lenders. Its investigations and enforcement actions have yielded fines and settlements that have returned nearly $12 billion to millions of Americans in the past five years — money that otherwise would have enriched lenders through high and hidden fees on bank accounts and credit cards, predatory mortgages, deceptive terms in student loans, illegal debt collection from military service members and unfair auto loans.The bureau’s success and growing public support have only inflamed the wrath of Republicans. They never wanted a bureau, in part because abusive lending is lucrative for the owners and executives of financial firms they rely on for campaign donations. The more effective the bureau has proved to be, the more overheated its critics are. They now refer to the agency as tyrannical, even labeling the director “King Richard” and calling for his firing in the name of defending democracy.In prevailing upon Mr. Trump to do the deed, Republicans cite a recent ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit that changed a part of the law that created the agency. The law said that the president can fire the bureau’s director only for cause, a protection that is intended to insulate independent agencies from political interference. Similar protection is in place at the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the Federal Reserve, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Office of Special Counsel, the Social Security Administration and several other agencies.But in the case of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a three-judge panel ruled 2 to 1 that limiting the president’s power to remove the director made the position too powerful and thus breached the constitutional separation-of-powers doctrine. As a remedy, the judges ruled that the director must be removable at the president’s will.That remedy, however, will only take effect if the ruling is upheld by the full Court of Appeals or if the full court declines the bureau’s petition for a rehearing. If Mr. Trump were to fire Mr. Cordray now before the full court acted, the move would be needlessly antagonistic, probably illegal and likely to end up in the courts if Mr. Cordray challenged his removal.Even if the ruling were upheld, Mr. Trump would do well to let Mr. Cordray finish his term. After all, he has done a very good job protecting ordinary people from the powerful elites Mr. Trump spent much of his campaign raging against.
To the Editor:“With Many Schools Thriving Nearby, Those in Harlem Are Left to Fail” (“A District Divided” series, news article, Jan. 25) repeats the myth that charter schools in Harlem have harmed the district schools there. This is not the case.From 2006 to 2016, the proportion of District 3’s Harlem students attending charters increased from 11 percent to 55 percent. During that same period, District 3’s seven district schools in Harlem with elementary grades (if combined and treated as one school) went from outperforming 27 percent of city schools to 31 percent, a four-point increase.But the charter schools in this same area collectively outperformed 89 percent of city schools on the math exam. Thus, families in Harlem are flocking to charter schools not because we’ve made district schools worse, but because of the high-quality education we offer.EVA MOSKOWITZFounder and Chief ExecutiveSuccess Academy Charter SchoolsNew York
To the Editor:Re “The Republican Health Care Con” (editorial, Jan. 22):Consumers and patients need more control over their health care. Nearly 20 million Americans have health savings accounts because they deliver affordable coverage and consumer control. That’s why Republican lawmakers are right to promote their expansion.Your editorial suggested that these accounts primarily benefit the wealthy because poor and middle-class Americans cannot save enough. But the accounts deliver results for everyone. A majority of those with H.S.A.s work for companies that contribute to their accounts, so they can save more money tax-free for future health care needs.Many health savings accounts roll over year over year, so balances accumulate and grow. And while the tax deduction for a yearly H.S.A. contribution — up to $6,750 — may not mean much for wealthy families, it means a lot to the millions of hardworking families with much tighter budgets.DAVID MERRITTWashingtonThe writer is executive vice president for public affairs and strategic initiatives at America’s Health Insurance Plans, whose member companies have a financial interest in health savings accounts.
President Trump’s decision last week to withdraw from the Trans-Pacific Partnership carried broad geopolitical implications for Asian countries.
When President Obama ordered sanctions against Russia in 2014 for its Ukraine incursions, sales of Kalashnikov rifles surged in the United States. This is the deadly, ubiquitous assault weapon favored by infantries, terrorists and rich American hobbyists.AK-47s, as the rapid-firing weapons are popularly known, could no longer be imported from Russia, so buyers quickly depleted existing stocks and bid the price up.The sanctions came just as the Russian manufacturer had planned a big export campaign of Kalashnikovs with an American affiliate. It aimed to take advantage of gun controls in the United States, which are considerably looser than those in Russia when it comes to selling civilians assault weapons adapted from the military battlefield.There are countless AK-47 knockoffs available in the American market, as is evident in the mayhem of mass shootings that bedevil the nation. Yet the attraction of an authentic Kalashnikov remains strong for hunters and collectors. This has prompted American entrepreneurs at a company called Kalashnikov USA to plan to manufacture the weapons in Florida and thus observe the import ban.The company, which says it has severed all ties to Russia but retains the right to the brand, plans to begin selling semiautomatic shotguns and pistols under the Kalashnikov name this year, according to CNN. Eventually a modernized version of the AK-47 will be offered. “That’ll be the bread-and-butter gun,” Brian Skinner, the company’s chief executive, told CNN this month.The Kalashnikov venture should draw no criticism from President Trump, who openly admires President Vladimir Putin of Russia and is delighted that his own candidacy was endorsed by the National Rifle Association, which would like to see more Americans armed.
To the Editor:“A Bold Plan to Prevent Homelessness” (editorial, Jan. 23) made two important points about homelessness in New York City: It’s a crisis, and it requires big, bold solutions.We at Care for the Homeless, the city’s oldest and largest provider of health care exclusively to people of all ages experiencing homelessness, agree with your endorsement of Assemblyman Andrew Hevesi’s Home Stability Support legislation modernizing rent subsidies for people on assistance to support them in getting and maintaining stable housing.Two other bold and necessary pieces to fighting homelessness are pledges made by the city and the state to each create 15,000 units of supportive housing in New York City, and the city’s innovative HomeStat program, intended to develop relationships with homeless people, assign caseworkers to them and create individual plans leading to housing for every person experiencing homelessness on the streets.We can start to end homelessness right now. If we start now, we can end the crisis in years, not decades. And we can end homelessness for not more than we’re spending on homelessness now.BOBBY WATTSExecutive Director, Care for the HomelessNew YorkTo the Editor:Yes, it’s certainly important to expand our safety net with increased rent support so that those New Yorkers relying on public assistance may finally find a way out of shelter. But calling this a bold plan? Only if we’re willing to accept a permanent underclass and insidiously shore up the status quo.Rather, Assemblyman Andrew Hevesi’s rent assistance plan needs to be tied to a bolder set of initiatives, one that appreciates the problem through the frame of the larger antipoverty struggle. Surely, creating opportunities to live in affordable and decent housing is an important start.But there are other critical issues at stake — inadequate access to health care, enervated neighborhood schools, stagnant local economies and few economic opportunities — that must be incorporated into any response if we’re truly to address the underlying issues that drive so many into homelessness.ARNOLD S. COHENPresident and Chief ExecutivePartnership for the HomelessNew YorkTo the Editor:New York City is confronting a homelessness emergency. In November, a record of almost 63,000 men, women and children slept in shelters on average every night.Your editorial sensibly shows how a proposed statewide rental supplement is the right program for this urgent moment. The Home Stability Support program addresses the most serious drivers of homelessness: the divide between shelter allowances and staggering housing costs, as well as the lack of financial support for families fleeing domestic violence.In the city, a three-person household with children can receive a $400 allowance. Yet by federal calculations, the fair-market rent of a two-bedroom unit in the city is $1,637. This gap puts too many New Yorkers on razor-thin budgets, so that any contingency, like a sickness or a lost job, can lead to evictions, homelessness and immeasurable distress from a disrupted life.By covering the subsidy gap, the program will keep families in their homes and neighborhoods intact.The program is already supported by a wide range of city and state officials. Legislators must pass the Home Stability Support program, and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo should sign it into law.SEYMOUR W. JAMES Jr.Attorney in Chief, Legal Aid SocietyNew York
My mother has dozens of family pictures in her hallway, but not a single one of me. She keeps recent photos clustered in the spare room where I sleep when I visit. I turn them facedown when I’m there.It took my mother two years to be able to look at me without crying after I transitioned. This was in 2004, and I had little hope that the world at large would ever regard me as a full human being. The first time she picked me up from the tiny regional airport she didn’t recognize me, and when she did looked away with the tears brimming at her lashes.It was her new husband — a retired Air Force man, a “good old boy” in the local vernacular — who had helped her come to terms with her new son with videos about trans people that he recorded from the Discovery Channel. I didn’t learn this until years after the fact, and I was surprised — and ashamed — at my failure to imagine that he might have been part of the reason for her change of heart.When I told my mother I was going to have top surgery, and four years later, a hysterectomy, she begged me not to destroy parts of my body in service to the “delusion” that I was a man. I didn’t know how to explain to her that these parts were slowly killing me — so ineffable does gender become when looked at on the playing field of the soul — and I cut off contact with her until after each of the surgeries was finished. It seemed easier for both of us not to discuss the inevitable as if it were optional.In 2013, five years after my hysterectomy, my mother called to tell me that the doctor had found what might be a spot of cancer on her uterus. She wanted to know about the surgery, what she could expect during recovery, and more shyly, if it had been painful. I answered her questions, and then the unlikelihood of the situation struck me. “I bet you never thought you’d be asking your 35-year-old son advice about a hysterectomy,” I said. She laughed, in that deep and abandoned way that I like to think only I can make her laugh, and for a moment we both forgot that she might have cancer.I went to the mountains and took care of her for two weeks following her surgery, cooking meals and keeping the house spotless — all the things her husband had never learned to do. It was during this time that I first noticed there were no pictures of me in the public parts of the house. When I asked about their absence, she met the question with the Appalachian taciturnity I have always struggled with. “Well,” she said.My mother, like many parents of adult children, suffers from selective amnesia. She didn’t remember burning my writing in the backyard when I was 13, or trying to protect me from disappointment by telling me I’d never amount to anything, or the countless times she beat me when I didn’t want to wear a dress on Sunday morning. When I was 9 or so, I said to her with a child’s conviction that God is concerned with the content of our spirit, not our appearance. That morning I sat on the pews in the church where my grandfather preached with the welts on the backs of my legs stinging.My mother didn’t remember how many times she broke my heart. I know I broke hers, not once but twice, the first when I came out as queer when I was 17, the second when I became a man at 24. But, where my queerness hadn’t made us closer, my transition — the sheer impossibility of changing gender — eventually tore a hole in our shared reality, one through which we could talk about the ways we’d both been broken.One August afternoon, we sat on the porch swing telling stories about things we’d never spoken of before. I knew her father had been a violent drunk, a moonshiner I’d never spoken to because he had a stroke that took his speech the year I was born. I hadn’t known that he’d buried his bootlegging money in the woods and thrown my grandmother against the wall when she tried to dig it up. I hadn’t known that my mother grew up hungry or that my grandfather sometimes shot his guns into the house while his wife and children were inside. She told me that her childhood had made her fearful of new experiences. “And you were always so different,” she said, “different from the whole world.”She hadn’t known that in 1996, I became the only out person in my rural Appalachian high school. I told her things I’d mostly forgotten about this experience until that August afternoon conversation. One teacher had blithely told me I was going to hell. Another took me aside and told me to never set foot in her classroom again. An administrator stopped me in the hall and quietly told me I made him sick to his stomach. “Why didn’t you ever tell me about that?” my mother asked. “I would have marched right into that school and given them a piece of my mind.”“Mom,” I said, “don’t you remember?” Our home, already racked by poverty and alcoholism, was a war zone in which I became the primary target after I came out to her. I saw those memories come back, and the great shame they brought her. “I’m sorry, honey,” she said, “I just didn’t know any better.”Though my mother and I have worked very hard to have an honest relationship, there are limits to what we can understand about each other. Our reconciliation has been an adventure of the spirit, one that has required many leaps of faith and moments of forgiveness.But I can’t imagine what my mother has had to give up to let go of the idea that gender is immutable. And she cannot metabolize the fact that my friends commit suicide, or that trans people are murdered for the transgression of existing. It is almost as if, having been so changed, she cannot let in the horror of how many people still hate us, even as she agrees that it’s best for her husband’s family not to know about me, even as she refuses to hang pictures of me in the hallway.It is very rare that someone who knew me when I was a girl visits my mother’s house. But it is because of those potential visitors that she doesn’t keep pictures of me on the wall. I understand why she doesn’t want to risk explaining this unexplainable son, and I wish I didn’t. She has come such a long way — enough to mourn the ignorance of other people — but she still fears the sincerity of their beliefs. In being free of the fear that once poisoned her, she can see how much it still poisons the people around her.Though her husband showed her videotapes about trans people to help her understand me, I believe the most instructive thing he did was to show her love. My mother, who burst into tears when I asked her if she’d ever felt safe, had never known what it was like to be treated like a full human being until she met him.I share many bonds with my mother, the greatest of which might be that life has been much harder than it could have been. Those of us who are regarded as nonpersons do not need allies. We need those who have power to understand that the cost of having that power is much higher than the price of giving it up.My mother gave up what she had always known about gender in order to gain a son. But she didn’t just gain me. I see her now, when she makes the long journey from Appalachia to New York — and she is less afraid of everyone.
Populisms vary, but their genesis is generally the same. Some set of ideas commands public support but lacks purchase in elite policy debates. Then a combination of elite failure and popular pressure makes that tension ripe for exploitation, and some new figure or movement emerges, promising to follow the will of the people and override the ruling class.Donald Trump is obviously such a figure, and his freeze on refugee admissions to the United States is one of those ideas. Just as most Americans favor lower immigration levels than the bipartisan immigration deals hatched in Washington envision, many Americans are doubtful about admitting large numbers of refugees from terrorism-scarred countries. Trump’s primary-season proposal to temporarily bar all Muslims from entering the United States had only minority support. But when he shifted to advocating a refugee freeze and country-by-country restrictions, he was on more solid populist ground.So it’s not surprising that he’s attempting to keep this promise. It’s also not surprising that it’s been a mess.This is not because the basic idea is infinitely beyond the pale. I oppose the Trump refugee freeze because I think the United States has a particular moral obligation to help people in Iraq and Syria given our own blundering actions in the region. I also don’t see strong evidence the refugee program was creating a major terrorism risk, or threatening to create the kind of unassimilable enclaves that Europe is dealing with today. The temporary freeze on travel from seven Muslim-majority countries might make sense if the Trump administration had a brilliant new vetting procedure in mind, but there’s little evidence of that.At the same time, all refugee policies involve limits, most refugees need to be helped much closer to home, not every refugee population will have an easy time adapting to American life, and the annual ceiling in Trump’s order — 50,000 — is still close to the number of refugees admitted in most years of the Obama and Bush presidencies.Moreover, some of the details of the Trump policy are perfectly defensible. The proposed preference for religious minorities, for instance, has been attacked as Christian chauvinism. But the reality is that Middle Eastern Christians (and Yazidis, and other groups) are often in a particularly desperate position — facing, for instance, persecution within refugee camps — and deserve more help than our efforts have afforded them to date.None of this is to minimize the cruelty involved in narrowing the doorway for refugees. But foreign policy is a realm of cruel choices, and it is not clear that the suffering caused by a narrower gate for refugees is obviously worse than the suffering caused by drone strikes and bombing runs and “kinetic military actions,” all policies that consistently command bipartisan support.So why the weekend frenzy, the screaming headlines, the surge of protest? Because of several features inherent to populism, which tend to undermine its attempts to govern no matter the on-paper popularity of its ideas.First, populism finds its voice by pushing against the boundaries of acceptable opinion. But in the process it often embraces bigotries and extremisms that in turn color the reception of its policies.In this case, it’s Trump’s original “Muslim ban” forays (and the clash-of-civilizations rhetoric of his inner circle) that has shaped how his freeze has been received. His defenders may protest that most Islamic-majority countries are not affected, that any counterterrorism policy will disproportionately affect Muslims, and that the White House order draws on a list of countries that President Obama targeted for (much more modest) visa restrictions. All of this is true, but still … Donald Trump ran for president calling for a temporary ban on Muslims. Once he crossed that line (and many others), it became inevitable that any move like this would be seen as a second-best path to religious discrimination, and resisted fiercely and understandably on those grounds.Second, having campaigned against elites and experts and all their pomps and works, populists imagine that their zeal can carry all before it, that proceduralism and institutional knowledge are for losers and toadies and men with soft hands, and that a few guys in the White House can execute a major overhaul of a delicate system without bureaucratic patience or rhetorical finesse.This assumption is deeply mistaken, for reasons evident this weekend — in the chaotic scenes at airports, the spectacle of people already in transit being turned away, the crazy attempt to apply the ban to permanent residents, the absence of obvious carve-outs and exceptions, the failure to get adequate buy-in or advice from cabinet officials, and the blowback from Trump’s political allies as well as his opponents.Then, finally, because populism thrives on its willingness to shatter norms, it tends to treat this chaos and blowback as a kind of vindication — a sign that it’s on the right track, that its boldness is meeting inevitable resistance from the failed orthodoxies of the past, and so on through a self-comforting litany. That makes it hard for populists to course correct, because they get stuck in a “the worse the better” loop, reassuring themselves that they’re making progress when actually they’re cratering.Meanwhile, on the other side of the divide, the ascent of populism also creates an unusual level of solidarity among elites, who feel moved to resist on a scale that they wouldn’t if similar policies were pursued by normal political actors. Thus Trump, not even two weeks into his presidency, has already faced unusual pushback from the intelligence community, the Justice Department, the State Department and other regions of the bureaucracy, even as the media-entertainment complex unites against him on a scale unseen even in previous Republican administrations, and the Democratic Party is pressured into scorched-earth opposition before policy negotiations are even joined. These tensions ratcheted up over the weekend; it’s difficult to see how they ratchet down.The great fear among Trump-fearers is that he will deal with this elite opposition by effectively crushing it — purging the deep state, taming the media, remaking the judiciary as his pawn, and routing or co-opting the Democrats. This is the scenario where a surging populism, its progress balked through normal channels, turns authoritarian and dictatorial, ending in the sort of American Putinism that David Frum describes darkly in the latest issue of The Atlantic.But nothing about Trumpian populism to date suggests that it has either the political skill or the popularity required to grind its opposition down. In which case, instead of Putin, the more relevant case study might be former President Mohamed Morsi of Egypt, the Muslim Brotherhood leader whose brief tenure was defined both by chronic self-sabotage and by the active resistance of the Egyptian bureaucracy and intelligentsia, which rendered governance effectively impossible.The Egyptian deep state’s sabotage of Morsi culminated in a coup. This is not my prediction for the Trump era. But what we’ve watched unfold with refugee policy suggests that chaos and incompetence are much more likely to define this administration than any kind of ruthless strength.
We wrote this together because we have a few things in common. Some are obvious: Both of us came to the United States as teenagers fleeing Communist regimes; both of us are queer. We are also both moved alternately to tears and to rage by the actions of the new American president. One thing that we share is less obvious: This anger and despair make both of us feel as if we are losing our home.Masha once spent an evening in Berlin with a sociologist and a philosopher trying to define “home.” The three discussants had, among them, lived in more than half a dozen countries and counted themselves native in at least two languages each. Facts like country of birth, length of stay or mother tongue were not applicable. Other descriptors emerged: a sense of safety, a sense of familiarity, a sense of inhabiting space with certainty, a sense, indeed, of the certainty of that space — the opposite feeling of having the rug pulled out from under your feet.President Trump has introduced fear into our households. Both of us are married to women who are not American citizens (both are Russians who carry green cards), and both of us are raising children some of whom are United States citizens and some not. Most Americans do not realize that a hierarchy of immigrant security exists. Permanent green-card holders are more secure than provisional ones; political asylum or refugee status can be canceled with the stroke of a pen; asylum applicants are the most vulnerable — thousands of people are in the country legally, awaiting an interview or a decision on their application, but their right to remain here can be snatched away for any reason. Many of these people would face violence or even death if they were forced to return to their countries. In this hierarchy, our partners and children are safer than most, but a sense of insecurity has still seeped into our homes — making them feel less like home.Martina came to America at 18, still a high school student. She was already a world-class tennis player, though. A few months earlier, the Czechoslovak authorities had denied her permission to travel to the U.S. Open. They later reversed that decision, but the experience of powerlessness was enough to make her seek political asylum when she got to New York. The prospect of the authorities controlling her ability to compete was more frightening than the prospect of living in a strange country, far from her parents, whom she could not be certain of ever seeing again. She knew that America was the land of freedom.Masha knew this growing up, too. Her parents brought her to the United States when she was 14. She had never been to this country, but leaving everything she had known behind and moving to America seemed like a homecoming. Masha came from a family of writers: the freedom to write and read was the singular attraction of coming to America. For Martina, freedom of speech also figured strongly in the imagined freedom of the United States. She liked to tell jokes, and she wasn’t always great at judging her audience, so it would be good not to face political repercussions for ill-timed humor. Also, Martina had a secret that could never be disclosed in Czechoslovakia: She liked women.As it turned out, freedom of speech in America had limitations. Immigration policies carried over from the early 20th century and enshrined in the 1952 Immigration and Nationality Act dictated that “sexual deviants” be deported for reasons of “psychopathic personality.” The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which had deported dozens of people a year in the 1950s and 1960s, had stopped actively hunting down homosexuals, but an openly gay or bisexual person could still not be granted citizenship. Martina decided to keep quiet about her sexuality until she had her citizenship. She got that in 1981, but at that point the Women’s Tennis Association asked her not to come out. The women’s sport had been rocked by scandal, and sponsors were threatening to pull out. She waited (though some journalists did not).Masha decided to challenge the homophobic Immigration and Naturalization Services when she applied for citizenship in 1989. She wrote a letter saying that she was a lesbian but considered herself not to be a “psychopathic personality.” She expected to take her case to court once she was rejected, but she was granted citizenship. The following year, the anti-gay provisions of the immigration law were finally repealed. Masha, meanwhile, celebrated her citizenship by getting arrested in a civil-disobedience action in front of the I.N.S. in New York, to protest a ban on entry to the United States for people with H.I.V.For Martina, the road to coming out proved long. Finally, in 1993, she spoke at a gay and lesbian march on Washington. The crowd cheered. And then, everywhere she went that day, people celebrated her. You would think that a woman who had set records for the number of consecutive years at No. 1 in singles and doubles tennis would be used to the adulation of crowds. But she was not. Her game had been criticized as too muscular, her personal style as too aggressive, and the crowds almost always seemed to side with her opponent, who was almost invariably more traditionally feminine. Now, suddenly, here was the feeling she had never had on the court, a feeling she had nearly forgotten was possible. After 18 years in America, she finally felt at home.In the end, this was the promise that had brought us here: not that we would find home immediately but that we would have the freedom to make our home here. The process necessarily included the freedom to work to change America so that it would include us and accept us, and others like us, and still others who were unlike us and who brought more change with them. This is the promise that brought more than 42 million Americans — more than 13 percent of the population — here from other countries. This is the promise now being yanked back by Mr. Trump’s suspension of the refugee program, by the ban on admitting people from seven predominantly Muslim countries, by the wall on the border with Mexico, by the xenophobic rhetoric emanating from the White House, by the idea that “America first” somehow means that everyone who is not born American is therefore excluded.The people hit hardest by Mr. Trump’s policies are the people in need of immediate refuge. But in the slightly longer run, it is tens of millions of others who have grown up, or are growing up, with the idea that somewhere, there is a land of the free that could be their home, too. Most of them would never come to the United States, but they were made safer by its tradition of welcoming immigrants — an ideal that, though it was never honored to the fullest extent possible, remained until now central to America.One in four people in the United States is an immigrant or the child of an immigrant. A majority of people in the country are immigrants or the descendants of immigrants. If they — if we — do not continue to stand up against Mr. Trump, we will lose our home, too, even as we stay in our houses.
To the Editor:Re “Partisanship Is the Real Story Behind the Fake News” (The Upshot, Jan. 12):To some degree, partisanship is a media creation. While it is true that partisan polarization has increased, the increase occurs primarily among the most extreme ideological partisans, not the bulk of the public.A University of Pennsylvania political scientist, Matthew Levendusky, has recently shown that individuals mistakenly perceive the public to be more politically divided than it actually is.When you get beyond the recent presidential election and look at contentious political issues like abortion and gun control, you find considerable agreement among Americans on common-sense solutions, as shown in your Jan. 10 Upshot article (“Where Experts and Public Agree on Limited Gun Deaths”) that found overwhelming support for background checks on gun purchases.News that emphasizes partisan divides between staunch Democrats, who lambaste fake news stories about Hillary Clinton, and Republicans, who castigate BuzzFeed’s posting unsubstantiated claims about Donald Trump, fuels partisans’ perceptions that the country is polarized, to some degree creating that very reality.RICHARD M. PERLOFFClevelandThe writer is a professor of communication, psychology and political science at Cleveland State University.
CORVALLIS, Ore. — Now and then my youngest daughter writes me a note. In June, for example:Happy father dayLove you so much Great father Great time with you your gigs awesome your rockstarLauraFor the record, I am no Rolling Stone. Gigs with my band are in bars and coffeehouses. Still, I keep the note taped up over my desk, along with the others. When I look at them, I imagine Laura writing in her downstairs room, the walls covered with “Star Wars” stickers and “Frozen” posters and ribbons from 4-H rabbit shows. She tears the note from the spiral notebook, folds it in half, scrawls “DAD” on the outside. Then she hurries up the stairs to find me and thrusts the folded note into my hands.Laura is 15 now, and she has Down syndrome, so writing about her has its complications. For each sentence, I could add a page of narrative caveats, a fine print to govern the legal interpretation of anecdote:This positive description is not intended to inspire. Yes, she is sweet, but also has non-sweet moments. The author stipulates to the existence of said moments, but feels no need to describe them for “balance.” Despite his numerous positive encounters with persons with Down syndrome, the author explicitly rejects the contention that they share a single, winning “personality,” or the underlying assumption that any one can represent all the others. Though the author has strong opinions on a range of social issues, he declines to weaponize his daughter in their service. Laura is not an example in an argument. She is not a success story. She is not a story at all. She is a person, and by describing her, the author does not speak “for” her, but intends to suggest what she is like and raise questions about the world she enters. This work is related to, yet different from, his work as a parent, which is to help her find, in every sense, her place.Behind these caveats is the wish to control interpretation, and behind that vain hope is, in no particular order, a writer’s ego, a father’s protectiveness and a deep familiarity with the average internet comment section.Faced with the text of Laura’s note, one reader might see confirmation that all people with Down syndrome are sweet; another might say, If she’s writing, she’s unusually high-functioning; another might spew obscenities, abuse and variations on the word “retard”; another might say, Well, that’s all very nice for now, but what happens when she’s an adult and the parents die and she’s a burden on the rest of us? Saying positive things about a child with Down syndrome on the internet is like accelerating protons to near light speed in the Large Hadron Collider. You get an explosion of legible trails, and a secondary explosion of analysis and speculation, and in the aftermath, the child seems almost hypothetical: a particle whose theoretical value is much debated, but whose existence has yet to be confirmed.Complications like this don’t much interest Laura. She likes what she likes, which at the moment involves spoiling her rabbit, Skyping with her older sister, refusing help on her homework, and streaming episodes of “Emergency!” on the iPad. Her preference for simplicity, like my fondness for complication, is an effect of identity, of which ability is only a part. We’re both working with the brains we have. If she writes, Great time with you your gigs, it’s because I’ve been playing out a lot lately, and if she puts down things as they occur to her — first thought, best thought — and disdains punctuation, those choices remain appropriate for what a writing teacher might call the Rhetorical Situation. Her style is pure Laura, and for her intended audience, it works.In one way, Laura’s Father’s Day note is nothing special: Lots of people with Down syndrome read and write. In another, it is evidence of a radical transformation that began in my lifetime, and is still underway. In the United States, children with intellectual disabilities won the right to attend public school only in 1975, by way of what is now known as the Individuals With Disabilities Education Act, or IDEA. Laura’s words express the law’s existence, the structures and supports that flow from the law, the teachers and aides who make good on the law’s promise, and Laura’s own will to communicate. And they express a future, in which her place depends, in part, on her ability to decode the world around her and make her wishes known.Lately, that future seems more fragile. That’s partly because it’s nearer than it used to be. Parents call it “the cliff”: the moment, at 21, when a child ages out of the school system. What’s left, after you go over the cliff, are far fewer options for work, housing and an independent daily life. It’s common to point out that intellectually disabled adults “fall through the cracks,” but this metaphor is not quite right, because it suggests a landscape that is mostly solid. It is mostly made of cracks. Most adults with intellectual or developmental disabilities don’t work, even though most want to, and fewer still receive a living wage. Most don’t live independently, even when they could. Many face discrimination, exploitation and abuse.With the election of Donald J. Trump, both the systems on which the disabled depend and the acceptance vital to their full participation in society are under threat. Trump’s nominee for secretary of education, Betsy DeVos, would divert money from public schools to private schools, where IDEA does not apply; in a confirmation hearing, she avoided substantive questions about it, and even seemed unfamiliar with the law or its importance. Trump’s nominee for attorney general, Jeff Sessions, has opposed inclusion by characterizing children with disabilities as classroom behavioral problems, threats to the presumably normal children.Like a lot of people, I woke up on Nov. 9 wondering what sort of country I lived in. A man had successfully campaigned on the prejudices that divide us. Whether he personally held those prejudices — against African-Americans, Mexicans, Muslims, women or the disabled — was not the point. The point was his willingness to appeal to them. By scapegoating in this way, he showed himself ready to use marginalized people for a calculated end.Laura’s a good kid and works hard in school. People love her and she rarely gets lunch detention. We’re incredibly proud of her for all that, but I don’t want her successes used to suggest that everything is peachy, educationwise, in the United States (it’s not), or turned against others who have a harder time with achievement or behavior. Some students are nonverbal. Some act out. They, too, need to be valued, and to have a valued place, in school and after.For a parent, then, the question is how to respond.At the beginning of this essay, I wrote, She is not an example in an argument. But clearly I have made her one. Perhaps the statement was aspirational. I suppose that as long as the meaning of disability is contested, any story will be adduced as an example, whether the writer wants it to or not. Perhaps the best I can do is to say that Laura is irreducible to example, that she is more complex than any structure of words, that she develops even as the words remain fixed.When parents and others do speak about or for people with intellectual disabilities, we need to do so responsibly. For a start, that means surrendering rhetorical techniques that are crude but effective. It’s easy, for example, to play to positive stereotypes of Down syndrome, but doing so would buy into everything I reject: taking the individual for the group; accepting the medical classification of that group as the primary one; auditioning for acceptance making the child a reality show contestant, canned story and all. A victory on these terms is not worth having, because it leaves the larger conceptual errors untouched, and how we conceive of people with disabilities is crucial — which is to say, how we conceive of we, of who is counted in the first person plural.These are only first steps, but they matter. If we publicly recognize the common interests of people now marginalized, if we recognize that “their” interests are also ours, we can resist policies that undo their rights and protections — and continue the project of building a world where we, in the broadest sense, can fully belong.
Over the past half-century, the rate of obesity in America has nearly tripled, while the incidence of diabetes has increased roughly sevenfold. It’s estimated that the direct health care costs related to obesity and diabetes in the United States is $1 billion a day, while economists have calculated the indirect costs to society of these epidemics at over $1 trillion a year.In recent years, some researchers have focused on the particular role refined sugar may play in these epidemics. Perhaps the most comprehensive analysis of this research has been put forth by the science journalist, Gary Taubes, author of the recent book, “The Case Against Sugar.” I spoke with Taubes about his research and what people should know about sugar to make better choices in their diets.— David BornsteinDavid Bornstein: What’s the essence of the case against sugar?Gary Taubes: To understand the case against sugar, using a criminal justice metaphor, you have to understand the crimes committed: epidemics of diabetes and obesity worldwide. Wherever and whenever a population transitions from its traditional diet to a Western diet and lifestyle, we see dramatic increases in obesity, and diabetes goes from being a relatively rare disorder to a common one. One in 11 Americans now has diabetes. In some populations, one in three or four adults have diabetes. Stunning numbers.So why sugar? Well, for starters, recent increases in sugar consumption are always at the scene of the crime on a population-wide level when these epidemics occur. And sugar is also at the scene of the crime biologically, and it’s got the mechanism necessary. But the evidence is not definitive; what I’m arguing is still a minority viewpoint.D.B.: What’s the common explanation?G.T.: The conventional wisdom is that obesity is a problem of energy imbalance. We eat too much, we’re too sedentary, so we get fatter — and this in turn causes the diabetes, Type 2, which is the common form. I don’t find this energy balance concept meaningful. It’s like saying when somebody gets richer, they make more money than they spend; they accumulate wealth. It’s a tautology; it tells you nothing about why it happens.Still, it’s this energy balance thinking that leads us to blame the food industry for providing too much tasty food, and the individual who’s afflicted for not being able to eat in moderation and not being suitably active.D.B.: Can you explain what you call the alternative hypothesis?G.T.: Simple. Obesity is a hormonal/regulatory disorder just like any other growth defect. And the hormone that primarily drives fat accumulation is insulin, the same hormone that is disregulated in diabetes. Just as growth hormone is the primary driver of skeletal and muscular growth, insulin is the primary driver of our horizontal growth, the expansion of our fat tissue.We secrete insulin in response to carbohydrates in our diet and there’s a condition called insulin resistance that is the fundamental defect in Type 2 diabetes and is so closely associated with obesity that we can speculate that it might be the cause. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that 75 million American are insulin resistant.D.B.: What is insulin resistance?G.T.: Insulin is a hormone secreted by the pancreas that can be thought of as orchestrating how the body uses or partitions its fuel. It tells your cells to take up blood sugar and burn that sugar, technically glucose, for fuel. But it also tells your fat tissue to take up fat and inhibits the release of fat; it tells your muscles, your lean tissue, to use protein for rebuilding.If you’re insulin resistant, your pancreas needs to secrete more insulin to control blood sugar, and that insulin will increase your fat accumulation as a consequence.Researchers studying insulin resistance believe it begins in the liver, beginning with the accumulation of fat in the liver cells. As it turns out, the fructose constituent of sugar — half of cane or beet sugar, 55 percent of high fructose corn syrup — is metabolized primarily in the liver, and when it is delivered to the liver in high doses, the liver converts it into fat. So that’s what I mean when I say sugar is at the scene of the crime both in populations and biologically, in the body itself.D.B.: Given the rates of obesity and diabetes in the United States, what do you think is called for today?G.T.: I’m arguing the reason we’ve failed to curb the obesity and diabetes epidemics is we’ve misunderstood the cause. We blame eating too much and exercising too little, rather than the carbohydrate content of the diet, specifically sugar.We need better research that asks the correct questions and rigorously, methodically and skeptically identifies the precise dietary causes of these disorders so we know what has to be removed to reverse or stop them. We need studies that can disassociate the physiological or toxic effects of sugar — on body fat, on insulin resistance status — from the calories it contains.D.B.: Let’s say that happens. Then what?G.T.: Then we have to get the message right. If we believe that sugar is just empty calories, then it’s reasonable to say eat it in moderation and balance the calories in sugary snacks by exercising more. We don’t have to steal Christmas, in effect, by removing sugar from our diets and our lives.But I’m arguing that if sugar causes obesity and diabetes, then we should drop the “too much of,” or “overconsumption of,” or “excess of,” and just say sugar causes these diseases. (We could say added sugars, or refined sugars, if we don’t want to implicate fruit). We know that smoking too many cigarettes will cause lung cancer, but we don’t say “too many cigarettes” cause lung cancer; we say “cigarettes cause lung cancer.” The message is fundamentally different.D.B.: What do you think the sugar industry should do?G.T.: The sugar industry and its defenders argue that the evidence is ambiguous; therefore we should continue to believe that sugar is no more than empty calories at the very worst. What I would like them to do is suggest tests that could exonerate sugar, if it’s really harmless. It’s not enough just to say the evidence is ambiguous. And I think the industry now has an obligation to fund those tests.D.B.: Do you think we should regulate sugar?G.T.: I prefer education. Government regulation makes me nervous, as my books have documented how the ill-conceived efforts to limit our fat consumption, beginning in the 1970s and 1980s, may have helped put us in this situation. And government regulation based on ambiguous evidence makes me very nervous. It can set precedents for regulating other food products that might not be harmful or might even be beneficial to our health.D.B.: What would help advance that education?G.T.: We can put warning labels on sugary beverages as we’re trying to do in California. We can drop sugary drinks from kids’ menus at restaurants, as some chain restaurants already are. There are government campaigns, in various cities, and funded by the C.D.C. to discourage sugary drink consumptions. There are nonprofits creating ads and YouTube videos that help us understand quite how much sugar we’re consuming.One possibility is that the Food and Drug Administration could reassess whether sugar should still be listed as “generally recognized as safe.” Foods need to have GRAS status to be used as additives. The F.D.A. granted sugar GRAS status in 1986, when most experts did generally recognize it as safe. But now they probably wouldn’t.Clearly, we have to lower the sugar content in foods. Sugar is in virtually every processed food: peanut butter, salad dressing, white bread, ketchup, processed meats, barbecue sauces, canned soups, cold cuts, hot dogs, canned tomatoes, to name just a few.One idea I like comes from a law professor at the University of California named, coincidentally, Stephen Sugarman, who has suggested a cap and trade approach for sugar. The idea is basically to have the markets and food industries agree to reduce the sugar that crosses the point of sale by, say, 5 percent every year. The idea is that we give food companies time to adapt to putting less sugar in their products, just like we give car companies time to reach higher gas mileage targets in their fleets.D.B.: Do you have any advice to offer from personal experience?G.T.: Clearly, the best approach is to learn to live without the obvious sources of sugar, in the sugary beverages, the candies and treats. But you have to do it long enough so that you can really know how you feel without it.What’s it like to enjoy a meal without a dessert, or to drink water instead of juice or soda, to have a snack of nuts rather than a candy bar? When we try, and we can all do this as an experiment, we have to do it for long enough that we get over the initial cravings and get to the point where we can really experience what life is like without it. Only then can we decide if a healthy life without sugar is worth the apparent sacrifice.
To the Editor:Let’s talk “identity politics.” I don’t have a single label. I'm a woman. I’m Muslim. I’m Arab. I’m Latina. Every one of those labels has become some type of political identity that leads me to support those in power whose policies keep my rights protected. What happens when the newly elected government threatens your identities and your rights?Because I do not fit the mold of “white, Christian, all-American girl next door,” I — and many people like me who are considered “diverse” — have been tagged as less important, and our rights and safety concerns have been pushed aside by our president with every executive order he signs. People like me are actually larger in number than you may think. The millennial generation is said to be the most diverse in our history, with 43 percent of us being nonwhite.It has been less than two weeks under Donald Trump’s America, and he has already taken steps to bar many Muslims from entering the United States, deport illegal immigrants, reinstate the abortion gag rule, have a wall built on the Mexican border and reconsider the Dakota Access Pipeline.Since the executive order on Muslims was signed, I have personally faced discriminatory comments from my fellow citizens such as “She needs to go,” and “Arrest them, jail them for terrorism, then deport them.” America has a dark and shameful history when it comes to providing those fleeing persecution and war with safety and security.As a Muslim woman, I have heard things like “Muslim feminist is an oxymoron.” I have been made to feel like an outsider in my own place of birth and am being threatened with some fantasized “cleansing of America” of people of my faith.So what can we do? We need to fight back. We need to demand different policies. Together, we can prove that it’s not about the power of the government, but the power of the people that can make a change.JENAN A. MATARINew YorkThe writer is co-founder and editor in chief of the website MissMuslim.Editors’ Note: We invite readers to respond briefly by Thursday morning for the Sunday Dialogue. We plan to publish responses and a rejoinder in the Sunday Review. Email: letters@nytimes.com
To the Editor:“President Bannon?” (editorial, Jan. 31) serves as a clarion call to all Americans who already are or should be extremely concerned about what the Trump presidency has very quickly morphed into. Based on several draconian and probably unconstitutional executive orders issued by President Trump and the unprecedented and deeply troubling appointment of his special adviser, Stephen Bannon, to sit on the National Security Council, it appears that Mr. Trump has indeed ceded authority to Mr. Bannon to basically act as the de facto president.Mr. Trump has never shown any interest in learning or understanding the intricacies of issues such as health care policy or national security. The “real Donald Trump” is revealed every time he tweets one of his trite and often bombastic messages, threats or attacks.As this new president, elected with far less than a majority of the popular vote, attempts to make good on his campaign promises, it appears that the keys to the Oval Office have been given to an unelected man known for his anti-Semitic, racist and anti-immigrant rants.Only a vociferous, well-organized and persistent opposition by millions of democracy-loving people will be able to reverse the potentially disastrous course that our new commander in chief has put our nation on.ALAN SAFRONWoodcliff Lake, N.J.To the Editor:Your editorial “President Bannon?” was right on the money. Since before the election I have been focused on Stephen Bannon’s outsized influence, especially since his stated goal is to destroy the political establishment. The question now is what anyone is going to do about it.He does not need confirmation by the Senate; he serves at the pleasure of the president. Unless the Republicans in Congress make it clear to Donald Trump that he will not get any desperately wanted legislation passed if Mr. Bannon remains employed, Mr. Trump will stick with him. After all, Mr. Trump doesn’t know or understand policy and government, so he leans on others.It is up to the constituents in the red states to put pressure on their representatives to be statesmen and defend the ideals of the United States, no matter the party of the man who sits in the White House.JoANN D. CLAPSRandolph, N.J.To the Editor:The White House is notorious for becoming a bubble of isolation around the president. With the ideological political strategist Stephen Bannon gaining a seat on the “principals committee” of the National Security Council while both the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and director of national intelligence will be invited only to “relevant” meetings of that body, the National Security Council moves closer to becoming an echo chamber for the president’s already held opinions.The narcissistic Donald Trump is now further distanced from dissenting points of view crucial to managing international issues wisely. Instead, his excessive need for admiration, coupled with insulation from potential critics, increases the likelihood of reckless behavior in the international arena.PAUL GRASECKPawtucket, R.I.
To the Editor:Re “Critics Say Rich Appointees Can Dodge a Tax Bill. That’s Not the Case” (DealBook, Jan. 10):Billionaires shouldn’t need a tax incentive to serve their country. That’s why I sponsored the No Windfalls for Government Service Act, to limit the reach of the Section 1043 tax loophole for cabinet nominees and others entering federal service.Contrary to the article’s contention, the ability to reallocate investments with no immediate taxes owed can be valuable. First, most investors understand the benefits of diversification. A chief executive with millions of dollars in company stock may use the Section 1043 benefit to diversify with no taxes owed.And ultimately these taxes may never be paid. If an official who uses the Section 1043 loophole holds the reinvested assets until he dies, his heirs inherit with stepped-up basis, meaning that the gains will have never been taxed.Yes, there may be estate taxes owed, but that’s a separate issue, and one that offers its own array of unfair loopholes for the wealthiest Americans.SHELDON WHITEHOUSENewport, R.I.The writer, a Democrat, is a United States senator from Rhode Island.
DONALD Trump’s presidency has sent people searching for historical analogies. Stephen K. Bannon, the president’s chief strategist, calls him a modern incarnation of Andrew Jackson. Newt Gingrich compares him to Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher. Liberals prefer authoritarian analogues, like Vladimir V. Putin or figureheads of the Axis powers.Each comparison assumes that Mr. Trump is a political figure with a politician’s instincts and calculations.But that is wrong. Mr. Trump is not just a president who is unusually obsessed with media. He is an aspiring media mogul who happens to be president. When Mr. Bannon told The New York Times that the media should “keep its mouth shut,” he was being disingenuous. Mr. Trump doesn’t want the media to keep its mouth shut. He wants to silence his critics, co-opt their distribution and broadcast the story of his stardom. After winning with the instincts of a media impresario, he will lead using the strategy of a media empire.Before the primaries even got rolling, Mr. Trump stormed to a lead through means that would be familiar to any upstart media or entertainment group. He identified an underserved audience demographic — the white working class — for whom he produced a range of genres from horror and comedy to uplift. Then he found a formula — nativist outrage and invective — for getting his message distributed on broadcast channels that he didn’t own or control, which happens to be the challenge of every 21st century media company in an age of decentralization.Now in the White House, President Trump is poised to enact his agenda through extraordinary means — by broadcasting an alternative reality in which he seeks a monopoly on his own narrative and facts. It is 20th-century strongman meets 21st Century Fox.In conversations with dozens of entertainment and media executives and academics from hit-making industries over the past few years, I have learned that there are three overarching rules of popular entertainment. Each applies to Mr. Trump.First, every successful franchise is fundamentally a hero myth. The primacy of heroes is self-evident in film, where five of the 10 highest-grossing movies of 2016 were superhero and fantasy sequels and spinoffs. But the creation of fictional heroes is what television is all about, too. “I define a hero as somebody who can do what we can’t do,” Nicole Clemens, a former executive vice president for series development at FX, told me. “That would include a brave fireman, but also a sociopath.”Savior-to-sociopath might measure the full spectrum of Americans’ feelings about Mr. Trump. His self-regard is legendary. His buildings are Pharaonic, emblazoned with golden surnames. Producers on the “The Apprentice” edited his entrances and utterances for maximum authority, painting him as a Caesar of the boardroom. Mr. Trump carried this mythic posture through the primaries, where he said what other candidates never would, and into the Republican National Convention, where he told his supporters that he could do what they could not. “Nobody knows the system better than me,” he said, “which is why I alone can fix it.” In other words, I’m not a politician. I’m a superhero.The second rule of popular entertainment is that, as critical as it is to write stories that move people, distribution is more important than content. On Twitter, Mr. Trump’s ability to distribute his message directly to voters is both novel and nostalgic at once. In the radio era, Franklin D. Roosevelt reached tens of millions of people with his fireside chats. When television eclipsed radio, presidential addresses remained blockbuster events. In 1970 alone, Richard Nixon delivered nine prime-time addresses to the nation, which reached half of all television-owning households.But the presidency’s star power has shrunk as the entertainment options around him have grown. Ronald Reagan’s average address reached less than 40 percent of households, and Bill Clinton’s reached 30 percent. At the same time, the average presidential sound bite on the news shrank from 40 seconds in 1968 to less than seven seconds in the 1990s. Cable created the golden age of television, but it ended a golden age for the bully pulpit.That is, before Mr. Trump. Twitter in his hands is an old-fashioned mainline to voters, with a key twist. Mr. Trump’s chief audience — the one he watches constantly and whose insults hurt the most — isn’t the public. It’s the newspapers and TV shows; the mass media is the audience. In a 2013 meeting of New York Republicans, when people told him he couldn’t run for president by relying on TV alone, Mr. Trump disagreed, according to Politico. “It’s really about the power of the mass audience,” he said.In an attention economy where success is theoretically driven by microtargeting and nifty viral ideas, Mr. Trump may have initially seemed like a dinosaur. But network scientists agree with the president’s instincts. In their famous study of viral online content, the researchers Sharad Goel, Ashton Anderson, Jake Hofman and Duncan Watts found that social distribution was chaotic, unpredictable and rarely produced hits. Instead, they wrote, “popularity is largely driven by the size of the largest broadcast.” Neither purely viral nor traditional, Mr. Trump’s media strategy is an ingenious blend of old and new — a direct line to voters, consistently amplified by the largest broadcasters.THE third rule of popular entertainment is the most distressing for the news media and for the country at large. The dark history of 20th-century entertainment is that media blockbusters seek to become monopolies. For nearly half of the 1900s, the movie studios owned movie theaters, before the Supreme Court ruled it illegal. Throughout the century, music labels bribed radio stations to play their handpicked songs over and over, until states cracked down on this practice, known as “payola.”This is the point where Mr. Trump and Mr. Bannon’s ambitions meet. The White House wants to establish a political media monopoly, which seeks dominion over its own set of facts, by demonizing critical news sources (even those within the government) and promoting sycophantic alternatives.The president has now labeled CNN “fake news” on live television and on Twitter. His adviser Kellyanne Conway deemed a series of obvious lies about the size of his inaugural crowd “alternative facts.” Mr. Trump issued gag orders to prevent government agencies, like the Environmental Protection Agency, from making public statements that presumably contradict his personal beliefs. In the last month, the administration has hailed the Fox News Channel, cited stories from Breitbart, the largest platform for the alt-right, and tweeted stories from LifeZette, a site that traffics in false pro-Trump rumors. We are seeing the origins of a White House Media Group, a constellation of pro-Trump sources that get access and kudos at the expense of traditional news companies.In a world of Trump-branded media, what role do we, the viewers, play? The next few years will be full of false certainties — and false uncertainties. Objective lies will get government support; objective truths will be darkened by cynicism. It could also be an age of brilliant investigative journalism and renewed civic engagement. Before Mr. Trump, social media had shrunk the universe of news to a handful of preferred stories picked by peers. But democracy was not designed for catharsis, and news was never meant to be therapy. Digging out the truth, for both reporters and readers, is painstaking and sometimes painful work. But the next four years are going to hurt, anyway. We might as well spend the time learning to love digging.It’s hard enough to predict the next four hours of the Trump administration, much less the next four years. But the publicity-driven instincts that got Mr. Trump to the White House may serve him terribly in the Oval Office. He is unpopular and torn between paradoxical instincts to condemn traditional news companies while seeking out their approval. The volume of early leaks suggests that many aides are already weary of a president who elevates representations of popularity over politics and policy.But Mr. Trump has had dreadful weeks before — and here we are. Several months ago, many people thought that he would badly lose the presidential race and build a television network, Trump TV. Instead, he has won both: a presidency that seeks to broadcast a separate media reality, in which an unpopular president is actually a hero of the people. If he succeeds, the Trump Show will be worse than reality television. It will not be reality at all.
America’s rivals and enemies have enjoyed a very good 10 days.One clear beneficiary has been ISIS, which has spent years trying to persuade Muslims that the United States is at war with Islam. ISIS wants to eliminate the world’s “gray zone,” the places where Muslims, Christians, Hindus and Jews live in harmony.No wonder that ISIS-affiliated social media gleefully posted President Trump’s executive order this weekend, as Rukmini Callimachi of The Times reported. Trump’s call for a Muslim ban, like his unsubtle attempt to implement one, plays right into ISIS’ desire to eliminate the gray zone. The president of the United States himself now seems to agree that Muslims and non-Muslims can’t live together.Besides the immorality and apparent illegality of Trump’s order, it’s worth weighing the strategic effects as well. Yes, it is conceivable that barring visitors from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen would keep out a future terrorist. But it’s highly unlikely.They are already intensely vetted, and previous attackers have generally come from other countries. “The end result of this ban will not be a drop in terror attacks,” as dozens of American diplomats wrote, in a dissenting draft memo that leaked. Instead, “it will be a drop in international good will towards Americans and” — because of the chilling effect on travel — “a threat towards our economy.”So any strategic benefits are tiny while the costs are substantial: Trump has just helped ISIS recruiters. He has angered Iraq, France and others battling ISIS. He’s started a new argument in the Middle East, which long distracted the United States. Most alarmingly, he has undercut our claim to stand for larger principles — freedom, rule of law, even basic competence.This undermining of both American values and interests has been an early theme of the administration. And the ultimate beneficiary is not likely to be ISIS. Although it poses serious threats, it is not a serious rival to the United States. The ultimate beneficiary is instead likely to be America’s biggest global rival: China.China remains far less powerful than the United States. But it has come a long way. Its economic progress and its ambitions, combined with the size of its population, mean that China has become the world’s only other potential superpower.Some degree of a rising China is inevitable — and welcome, given the continued reduction in poverty that will happen. The big unknown is whether China will change as it rises, to become freer and more respectful of the rule of law, or whether China will mold the rest of the world in its current closed and authoritarian image.Here, too, the Trump administration has set back American interests.In another executive order, Trump pulled the United States out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Whatever you think about the deal’s economic effects (and there has been a lot of silliness on both the left and the right), they were likely to be modest. The United States already has few barriers to Asian imports, which is why some combination of your car, television, computer, phone and clothing comes from Asia.The pact was more about geopolitics than economics. It was, as the Australian academic Salvatore Babones wrote in Foreign Affairs, “primarily a tool for spreading U.S. interests abroad.” Much of the Pacific Rim, including Australia, Vietnam and Malaysia, welcomed it, too.They welcomed it because they want a strong American presence to offset Chinese power in Asia. These countries have close commercial ties with China, but they are afraid of becoming merely moons that orbit Beijing. They tend to prefer the American model to the Chinese model.That’s why they were willing to adopt American-style rules on intellectual property, pollution and labor unions, even though those rules created some political tensions in those countries.Now that Trump has rejected our would-be Asian allies, China is trying to put together a different trade pact with some of the same countries. If China succeeds, it will gain more sway in Asia, as will a more bare-knuckle economic system in which copyrights, worker rights, product safety and the environment aren’t taken very seriously.Meanwhile, Beijing will be able to point to Trump’s extralegal stances as proof that the United States is just another self-interested, transactional nation. After all, the United States also threatened a trade war when it was unhappy with one of its neighbors and also mistreats its ethnic minorities.The early pattern of Trump foreign policy is to take actions that have the veneer of strength but are actually weak. It’s a kind of anti-Teddy Rooseveltism. Instead of speaking softly and carrying a big stick, the White House is screaming loudly to hide insecurity about the strength of its stick.The people with the most ability to limit the damage are Republicans who see themselves as advocates of a strong America. Bob Corker, John McCain, Marco Rubio and other members of Congress have enough leverage over the administration, in any number of ways, to influence it.The question they should be asking themselves is: How do our enemies and rivals feel about the Trump administration so far?
Donald Trump will break most of his campaign promises. Which promises will he keep?The answer, I suspect, has more to do with psychology than it does with strategy. Mr. Trump is much more enthusiastic about punishing people than he is about helping them. He may have promised not to cut Social Security and Medicare, or take health insurance away from the tens of millions who gained coverage under Obamacare, but in practice he seems perfectly willing to satisfy his party by destroying the safety net.On the other hand, he appears serious about his eagerness to reverse America’s 80-year-long commitment to expanding world trade. On Thursday the White House said it was considering a 20 percent tariff on all imports from Mexico; doing so wouldn’t just pull the U.S. out of NAFTA, it would violate all our trading agreements.Why does he want this? Because he sees international trade the way he sees everything else: as a struggle for dominance, in which you only win at somebody else’s expense.His Inaugural Address made that perfectly clear: “For many decades we’ve enriched foreign industry at the expense of American industry.” And he sees punitive tariffs as a way to stop foreigners from selling us stuff, and thereby revive the “rusted-out factories scattered like tombstones across the landscape.”Unfortunately, as just about any economist could tell him — but probably not within his three-minute attention span — it doesn’t work that way. Even if tariffs lead to a partial reversal of the long decline in manufacturing employment, they won’t add jobs on net, just shift employment around. And they probably won’t even do that: Taken together, the new regime’s policies will probably lead to a faster, not slower, decline in American manufacturing.How do we know this? We can look at the underlying economic logic, and we can also look at what happened during the Reagan years, which in some ways represent a dress rehearsal for what’s coming.Now, I’m talking about the reality of Reagan, not the Republicans’ legend, which assigns all blame for the early-1980s recession to Jimmy Carter and all credit for the subsequent recovery to the sainted Ronald. In fact, that whole cycle had almost nothing to do with Reagan policies.What Reagan did do, however, was blow up the budget deficit with military spending and tax cuts. This drove up interest rates, which drew in foreign capital. The inflow of capital, in turn, led to a stronger dollar, which made U.S. manufacturing uncompetitive. The trade deficit soared — and the long-term decline in the share of manufacturing in overall employment accelerated sharply.Notably, it was under Reagan that talk of “deindustrialization” and the use of the term “Rust Belt” first became widespread.It’s also worth pointing out that the Reagan-era manufacturing decline took place despite a significant amount of protectionism, especially a quota on Japanese car exports to America that ended up costing consumers more than $30 billion in today’s prices.Will we repeat this story? The Trump regime will clearly blow up the deficit, mainly through tax cuts for the rich. (Funny, isn’t it, how all the deficit scolds have gone quiet?) True, this may not boost spending very much, since the rich will save much of their windfall while the poor and the middle class will face harsh benefits cuts. Still, interest rates have already risen in anticipation of the borrowing surge, and so has the dollar. So we do seem to be following the Reagan playbook for shrinking manufacturing.It’s true that Mr. Trump appears ready to practice a much more extreme form of protectionism than Reagan, who avoided outright violations of existing trade deals. This could help some manufacturing industries. But it will also drive the dollar higher, hurting others.And there’s a further factor to consider: The world economy has gotten a lot more complex over the past three decades. These days, hardly anything is simply “made in America,” or for that matter “made in China”: Manufacturing is a global enterprise, in which cars, planes and so on are assembled from components produced in multiple countries.What will happen to this enterprise if the United States takes a meat ax to the agreements that govern international trade? There will, inevitably, be huge dislocation: Some U.S. factories and communities will benefit, but others will be hurt, bigly, by the loss of markets, crucial components or both.Economists talk about the “China shock,” the disruption of some communities by surging Chinese exports in the 2000s. Well, the coming Trump shock will be at least as disruptive.And the biggest losers, as with health care, will be white working-class voters who were foolish enough to believe that Donald Trump was on their side.
To the Editor:Re “Mary Tyler Moore, 1936-2017: Television’s Spunky Modern Woman Incarnate” (front page, Jan. 26):The character of Mary Richards gave women everywhere the courage to take on challenges and prove they could work just as hard as the men they knew. But it was the real Mary Tyler Moore who symbolized courage.She battled alcoholism and a lifelong struggle with diabetes, and yet refused to let any of this stop her from succeeding. It takes a very strong person to remain so determined, and Mary Tyler Moore definitely possessed will power.We haven’t just lost a celebrity. We have lost a national treasure and an important voice in the history of female empowerment.BARBARA IRVINLock Haven, Pa.
Maybe I’m biased. Like Mary Richards, producer on “The Six O’Clock News” at WJM in Minneapolis, I’m a single female journalist in her 30s who works out of a big Midwestern city.But as played by Mary Tyler Moore, who died on Wednesday, Mary was more than a faded symbol of second-wave feminism. Don’t let those adorable neck kerchiefs and pleated miniskirts fool you. Forty years after “The Mary Tyler Moore Show” went off the air, Mary Richards’s struggles should still ring true for young women like myself. And her commitment to job, her colleagues and, most of all, to herself, still make her a model we can look up to.Some episodic lessons:You can be nice, and strong. She “turns the world on with her smile.” She’s insistently pleasant and earnest. It’s not a facade to make people like her; it’s her authentic self. She calls her boss Mr. Grant, even as everyone else calls him Lou. She’s good humored and honest, terrific qualities in a news producer, even if it took awhile for some people to realize that. “You’ve got spunk,” Lou infamously tells Mary when they first meet. “I hate spunk.”Stand up for others, and yourself. When Mary has a chance to hire a sportscaster, she picks a woman, an Olympic swimmer. Lou hates the idea. The news writer Murray assumes she’s just a “dummy in a tank suit.” Mary calls them out. “The idea of hiring Barbara Jean Smathers to do sports is not dumb,” she tells Lou. “What’s dumb is rejecting the idea because of some stupid prejudice. That is dumb.” (The live studio audience goes, “oooohhh,” and applauds.) In the end, Mary wields her authority: “Well, I’m producer of the news, and I think it’s a good idea. So that’s that.” And if the tennis club won’t let in your Jewish friend, tell them you’re Jewish, too, if you’re not.Ask for what you deserve. Mary makes a disturbing discovery in Season 3: She’s paid less than her male predecessor. She considers every rational explanation, but the reason is all too familiar even to present-day viewers. “Because he was a man,” Lou explains, with characteristic bluntness. Mary’s pushback doesn’t go over well, but she does eventually get pay equity. In later seasons she’s promoted from associate producer to producer (and fights back when she’s assigned a co-producer). She asks for more challenging responsibilities, and she gets them. (“I think it’s probably good for me to ask for what I believe in.”) By Season 7, Lou and Mary are going to the station director together to jointly ask for raises, and threaten to walk if they don’t get them. “Leaning in” isn’t easy, but you might find some surprising allies along the way.Fight the war, not every battle. You don’t have to react to every preposterous thing the doltishly egotistical anchorman Ted Baxter says, every offensive joke Lou makes, every dig from the cheerfully brutal Sue Ann Nivens, host of WJM’s other big show, “The Happy Homemaker.” An eye roll will often suffice. Or maybe a good-humored joke with a workmate like Murray, who helps you keep things in perspective. Keep your eye on the prize. After all, when Prince Charles suddenly cancels your “Talk of the Town” segment, you’ve got work to do!Honor your foremothers. Mary’s Aunt Flo is a famous groundbreaking journalist of a generation earlier. Much of her battle is familiar to Mary, but Flo has a hard edge that is decidedly un-Mary-like. Lou explains it well: “You see, Mary, when your aunt started out, she was a pioneer. All working women were. Pioneers have to be tough. They don’t win popularity contests. People like Flo Meredith broke the ground for people like Mary Richards.” Mary: “Sometimes you really surprise me. You’re not what I’d call a liberated man, but sometimes, Mr. Grant … wow.”Take criticism and praise with a grain of salt. It’s great that Mary wins a prestigious Teddy award, but that doesn’t make her immune from colds, stained clothing and false eyelashes stuck to her cheek. And when that female sportscaster that Mary fought for can’t stop herself from only reporting on swimming, Mary absorbs both criticism and comfort from her colleagues, takes responsibility, squares her shoulders and moves on. With a smile, of course.Stay true to your values. In the first episode of Season 5, Mary goes to jail when she refuses to reveal her source on a story. It’s hardly a battle that can be won easily. Two years later, the case is still chasing at her heels, and she has to lawyer up to face her contempt charge. (The prosecutor argues that she’s “not a bona fide newsman and therefore not entitled to First Amendment protections.”) She puts herself on the line to tell the truth. In the end, she’s vindicated in part because of the credibility she’s earned in the city after years of doing her job with integrity. Mary never gave up. She knew our democracy (and our self-respect) depend upon it.
To the Editor:Readers of “In Bhutan, Happiness Index as Gauge for Social Ills” (news article, Jan. 18) might gain the impression that Bhutan has something to teach other countries about how to enhance their citizens’ happiness. But there is a dark side: In the 1990s Bhutan drove out many of its ethnic Nepali citizens, and it continues to discriminate against those who remain.Expelling or otherwise excluding “undesirables” might, indeed, reinforce happiness for the majority, but I hope this is not a lesson other countries will wish to learn.DAVID BARTRAMLeicester, EnglandThe writer is an associate professor of sociology at the University of Leicester and an associate editor of The Journal of Happiness Studies.
To the Editor:That Russia tried to influence our elections should be deplored, investigated and countered. But let’s not forget that the dark money of corporations, billionaires and special-interest groups has influenced our elections to a far greater extent. It’s time for campaign finance reform.ELLEN MANKOFFMount Vernon, Ohio
With a single memorandum, President Trump may well have made it harder for health workers around the world to fight cancer, H.I.V., Zika and Ebola. The memorandum, signed on Monday, reinstates and expands a policy barring health organizations abroad, many of which provide an array of services, from receiving federal funds if they even talk to women about abortion as a method of family planning.The so-called Mexico City policy, also known as the global gag rule, was established by President Ronald Reagan in 1984, and has since been supported by every Republican president and opposed by every Democratic one; Barack Obama renounced it in 2009. Mr. Trump has not only reinstated it but greatly broadened its impact.In the past, the policy has applied only to international family-planning funds, which currently total around $600 million. Mr. Trump’s memorandum, however, would apply the policy to “global health assistance furnished by all departments or agencies.” Although reproductive health groups are still studying the memorandum, this language would appear to apply to any international health funding, around $9 billion, used to fight malaria, H.I.V., Zika, Ebola and many other global health threats. This would seem to go well beyond family-planning aid from the Agency for International Development and the State Department, to also include money from all American governmental agencies and departments.Federal funding for abortions abroad has been banned since 1973, except in cases of rape, incest or a threat to the mother’s life. Mr. Trump’s gag rule goes far beyond the 1973 ban to bar funding to all organizations that provide abortion or abortion referrals, even if they do so with their own funds and even if abortion is not the focus of their work.By cutting off family-planning funds to reproductive health care providers, the gag rule eliminated contraceptive and maternal health services to countless women around the world. After losing funding during the Bush administration, a group known as Family Health Options Kenya had to close six clinics, leaving 9,000 people with little access to health care.Perversely, the gag rule appears to have led to an increase in abortions, which its proponents obviously did not intend, and would be likely to do so in the future. In one 2011 study, African countries that relied heavily on aid from the United States experienced increased abortion rates when the policy was in effect, relative to countries that got less funding from the United States.The policy will also limit access to providers of safe abortions. Under the Bush-era policy, the International Planned Parenthood Association of Ghana reported a 50 percent increase in the number of women needing treatment following unsafe abortions.Though the potential damage from Mr. Trump’s memorandum is still being tallied up, the International Planned Parenthood Federation calculates that it may  lose $100 million over four years, leading to reductions in services in at least 30 countries.President Trump’s decision will limit health organizations’ ability to fight disease and promote reproductive health, and other governments will have to pitch in to help. On Wednesday, the Dutch government announced plans to establish an international fund to help fill the gap left by the reinstatement of the policy, paying for contraception, abortion and education for women. Representative Nita Lowey, Democrat of New York, and Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire, have introduced bills that would permanently repeal the Mexico City policy. Neither, regrettably, is likely to pass.
To the Editor:Re “Neil Gorsuch and the Supreme Court” (editorial, Feb. 1):Your opinion that Democrats should block Judge Neil Gorsuch is well founded. Though he is qualified, his views are far out of the mainstream on corporate, labor, religious and women’s issues. That can be fleshed out by senators before a cloture vote on a filibuster, allowing the public to see how far from the country’s moderate center this nominee is.Democrats shouldn’t fear wearing the collar of obstructionism. It certainly hasn’t hurt Republicans over the last eight years. Progressives, working people, women and anyone concerned about keeping religion out of government will thank them, guaranteeing future support. This principled strategy will clearly demonstrate what Democrats stand for, something that’s been lacking recently.Let the process play out normally and block cloture. Republicans will howl, and then invoke the “nuclear option,” which would require only a simple majority for confirmation. At that point, an old-fashioned, talking filibuster could force the Republicans to abandon the rules change and find a more moderate pick.The rules favoring Senate minorities are there for a reason. Democrats need to use them, just as the Republicans used them successfully in the recent past.ROD DRISCOLLMiddlebury, Vt.To the Editor:Re “Trump’s Court Pick Sets Up Political Clash” (front page, Feb. 1):The Democrats should recall Michelle Obama’s advice: “Where they go low, we go high.” The president may be itching for a fight, but don’t give him one.Judge Neil Gorsuch is an outstanding jurist and a scholarly student of the law. He would be an asset on the Supreme Court, and his selection would not upset the court’s balance; his mentor, Justice Anthony Kennedy, would remain the swing vote. The Senate Democrats should swallow their anger and permit the normal process of review. Find another cause to take on the president — and there will be many.FRED ANDREWSSouthold, N.Y.To the Editor:In your editorial, you point out, rightly, that Senate Republicans took the Supreme Court hostage for a year, and that the seat that Judge Neil Gorsuch has been nominated for has been empty for a year because of Republican obstructionism. But then you caution that Democrats “should be wary of stooping to the Republicans’ level.”Why is that? It doesn’t seem to have hurt the Republicans at all in the 2016 election. What possible reason do Democrats have to roll over — except that that’s what they have always done?I’m sick of “going high” when they go low. Look where it has gotten us. I don’t care how low we go, Democrats will never manage to be as low as Republicans, who care not a fig for the welfare of the country.TERRY SHAMESBerkeley, Calif.To the Editor:Donald Trump’s choice of Neil Gorsuch is a really bad decision and would be terrible for those of us who believe in personal liberty and freedom. In my case, I have terminal stage 4 lung cancer, and because I live in California I have the ability to choose how and when I will die.Judge Gorsuch, an outspoken opponent of death-with-dignity laws, would take that away. He would impose his own personal philosophy and his own values on my life and my choice, forcing me to slowly die of suffocation. He believes that the government, not the individual, gets to make my final life choices. And that his personal beliefs should be enshrined into law and imposed on the rest of us.That is not consistent with the intent of the founding fathers. So I would urge Congress to reject Judge Gorsuch and replace him with someone who will keep Uncle Sam off my deathbed.MARC PERKELGilroy, Calif.
The declaration Tuesday night by Senator Chuck Schumer, the leader of Senate Democrats, that “the burden is on Judge Neil Gorsuch to prove himself to be within the legal mainstream” poses a crucial question: Where is today’s mainstream?In the coming confirmation battle over President Trump’s nomination of Judge Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, we’re about to find out.The New York senator’s implied threat is a resonant one, harking back to the titanic battle 30 years ago over President Ronald Reagan’s nomination of Robert H. Bork. Judge Bork was “out of the mainstream” and would “turn back the clock” on civil rights, his opponents charged as they succeeded in marshaling a bipartisan coalition that defeated his nomination with 42 votes in favor and 58 against.By framing the goal as preserving the constitutional mainstream, the Bork opposition’s success necessarily defined the mainstream that existed in 1987. And the success seemed to go deeper, not only identifying but ratifying certain principles as being correct and beyond debate: that contrary to Judge Bork’s view, the Constitution encompasses a right to privacy that includes abortion; that the First Amendment protects much more than the political speech that Judge Bork claimed as its only legitimate focus; that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is valid in all particulars. Judge Bork, in a notorious article in The New Republic, had denounced the public accommodations provision of the law as based on “a principle of unsurpassed ugliness,” namely that government can override personal choices and “coerce you into more righteous paths.”But just as the Mississippi River changes course over time and redefines the boundary between Mississippi and Louisiana, the constitutional mainstream isn’t static. No participant in the Bork battle could plausibly have maintained, for example, that the Second Amendment protects an individual right to own a gun, as the Supreme Court would decide two decades later. Few if any anticipated the degree to which the First Amendment’s protection for commercial speech would be turned into a powerful deregulatory tool.The notion that a Supreme Court majority would invoke the Constitution to cut the heart out of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 would have been dismissed out of hand. The idea that the Commerce Clause was insufficient to empower Congress, as an aspect of regulating a national market for health care, to require people to acquire health insurance, would have seemed bizarre; the court had not invalidated a federal law on Commerce Clause grounds since the 1930s. And only a year before the Bork nomination, the Supreme Court rejected as “facetious” the claim that the Constitution prohibits criminalizing consensual gay sex.Judge Bork’s insistence that the Constitution must be interpreted in light of the original understanding of its authors, a view Judge Gorsuch is said to share, was a fringe notion in 1987. Anthony M. Kennedy, the federal judge confirmed to the seat after Judge Bork’s defeat, reassured the Senate by rejecting originalism; the Constitution’s framers had “made a covenant with the future,” he declared at his confirmation hearing. The originalism championed by Justice Antonin Scalia — who was a year into his own tenure when Justice Kennedy joined the court — and Justice Clarence Thomas has never gained a Supreme Court majority. But along with the propositions embodied in majority opinions over the past three decades, originalism has indisputably moved from “off the wall” to “on the wall,” to borrow an image from Prof. Jack Balkin of Yale Law School.All of which is to say that mainstreams respond to the gravitational pull of an evolving social consensus and to the push of political mobilization. Does President Trump’s bypassing of Judge William H. Pryor Jr., the shortlisted nominee favored by most social conservatives, mean that the current mainstream does not include the view that Roe v. Wade was “the worst abomination of constitutional law in our history,” the pithy characterization that Judge Pryor has never disavowed? Or do the president’s judge-vetters have reason to believe that Judge Gorsuch shares a dim view of Roe but would approach its dismantling with greater subtlety?Progressives emerged from the Bork battle confident that the mainstream was theirs, that they had leveraged a constitutional consensus to defeat a nomination that threatened it. The past 30 years have shown that consensus to be evanescent, if it ever really existed. But it’s important to emphasize that the conservative victories of recent years were razor-thin and remain deeply contested. The Republicans’ shameful blockade of the Merrick Garland nomination was an effort to freeze those victories in place while waiting for a resurgent conservative majority to ratify and strengthen them.Supreme Court confirmation hearings are justly derided for the scripted questions from senators and the nonanswers from nominees. But in their clumsy way, they serve to define the mainstream of the day. It may be scant comfort to progressives — perhaps the only comfort available to them at this freighted moment — that today’s mainstream is not necessarily tomorrow’s.
It’s been almost a year since Senate Republicans took an empty Supreme Court seat hostage, discarding a constitutional duty that both parties have honored throughout American history and hobbling an entire branch of government for partisan gain.President Trump had a great opportunity to repair some of that damage by nominating a moderate candidate for the vacancy, which was created when Justice Antonin Scalia died last February. Instead, he chose Neil Gorsuch, a very conservative judge from the federal Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit whose jurisprudence and writing style are often compared to those of Justice Scalia.If Judge Gorsuch is confirmed, the court will once again have a majority of justices appointed by Republican presidents, as it has for nearly half a century. For starters, that spells big trouble for public-sector labor unions, environmental regulations and women’s access to contraception. If Trump gets the chance to name another justice, the consequences could be much more dire.In normal times, Judge Gorsuch — a widely respected and, at 49, relatively young judge with a reliably conservative voting record — would be an obvious choice for a Republican president.These are not normal times.The seat Judge Gorsuch hopes to sit in should have been filled, months ago, by Merrick Garland, the chief judge of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, whom President Barack Obama nominated to the court last March. Judge Garland, a former federal prosecutor and 20-year veteran of the nation’s most important federal appeals court, is both more moderate and more qualified than Judge Gorsuch.That meant nothing to Senate Republicans, who abused their power as the majority party and, within hours of Justice Scalia’s death, shut down the confirmation process for the remainder of Mr. Obama’s presidency. There would be no negotiations to release this hostage; the sole object was to hold on to the court’s conservative majority. The outrageousness of the ploy was matched only by the unlikelihood that it would succeed — until, to virtually everyone’s shock, it did.The destructive lesson Senate Republicans taught is that obstruction pays off. Yet they seem to have short memories. After Senate Democrats refused to attend votes on two of Mr. Trump’s cabinet picks on Tuesday, Senator Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania said, “We did not inflict this kind of obstructionism on President Obama.” Even absent such dishonesty, any Democratic impulse to mimic the Republican blockade by filibustering Judge Gorsuch would be understandable. But Senate Democrats should be wary of stooping to the Republicans’ level, especially because any such effort is likely to prove futile, since Republicans have the votes to simply eliminate the use of the filibuster against Supreme Court nominees. The hearings should, however, present Democrats with an opportunity to probe Judge Gorsuch’s views.So what might a Justice Gorsuch mean for the court? Like Justice Scalia, he is an originalist, meaning he interprets the Constitution’s language to mean what it was understood to mean when it was written — an approach that has led both men to consistently conservative results.Judge Gorsuch’s similarities to Justice Scalia extend into several areas of the law. Since his appointment in 2006, by President George W. Bush, he has voted consistently in favor of religious-liberty claims, such as requests for exemptions for private companies and religious nonprofits that oppose the Affordable Care Act’s contraceptive mandate.He is even more conservative than Justice Scalia in at least one area — calling for an end to the deference courts traditionally show to administrative agencies, like the Environmental Protection Agency, that are charged with implementing complex and important federal laws.Given the events of recent days, senators should press Judge Gorsuch on how he would approach constitutional questions that have already arisen out of Mr. Trump’s actions as president, like his order barring refugees and immigrants from seven Muslim-majority countries, or his alleged violation of the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution.While Judge Gorsuch’s views on abortion are not known, he has written extensively about assisted suicide and euthanasia. In his book on the topic, he wrote that “human life is fundamentally and inherently valuable, and that the intentional taking of human life by private persons is always wrong.” By himself, Judge Gorsuch would not upset the court’s balance on abortion rights or affirmative action, but if one of the more liberal justices or Justice Anthony Kennedy step down during Mr. Trump’s presidency, a solidly right-wing majority could quickly overturn those precedents.Supreme Court nominations are among the most important decisions a president makes, and certainly the most enduring: A nominee like Judge Gorsuch could sit on the court for more than three decades. At a rally last summer Mr. Trump said: “Even if you can’t stand Donald Trump, you think Donald Trump is the worst, you’re going to vote for me. You know why? Justices of the Supreme Court.” That may have played well on the campaign trail, but Mr. Trump’s failure to choose a more moderate candidate is the latest example of his refusal to acknowledge his historic unpopularity and his nearly three-million-vote loss to Hillary Clinton. A wiser president faced with such circumstances would govern with humility and a respect for the views of all Americans.
To the Editor:“How to Avoid a Post-Antibiotic World,” by Nicholas Bagley and Kevin Outterson (Op-Ed, Jan. 19), stresses the importance of encouraging innovation to develop new and effective antibiotics.As bacteria resistant to our existing drugs flourish, new classes of antibiotics are indeed needed. But introducing new antibiotics into a broken system won’t solve our problem; it merely buys time.The overuse of antibiotics is the foundational problem, and the routine use of antibiotics on food animals is particularly troubling.The meat industry accounts for roughly 70 percent of medically important antibiotics sold in the United States. This number needs to come down, and it will if large industrial farms begin to use antibiotics only to treat sick animals, or if needed to control a verified disease outbreak.We need strong federal policies to prevent the misuse of our lifesaving medicines. Otherwise, the foundations of modern medicine will fall.MATTHEW WELLINGTONField Director, Antibiotics ProgramU.S. Public Interest Research GroupBoston
When Barack Obama was in office — remember the good old days, just over a week ago, when we didn’t wake up every morning and wonder what new atrocity was emanating from the White House — Republicans were apoplectic about his use of executive orders. They called them “unilateral edicts” and “power grabs.” As Iowa Senator Charles Grassley once said in a floor speech: “The president looks more and more like a king that the Constitution was designed to replace.”What a difference a week makes.Now many of those Republicans are as quiet as church mice as Donald Trump pumps out executive orders at a fevered pitch, doing exactly what he said he’d do during the campaign, for all of those who were paying attention: advancing a white nationalist agenda and vision of America, whether that be by demonizing blacks in the “inner city,” Mexicans at the border or Muslims from the Middle East.Trump’s America is not America: not today’s or tomorrow’s, but yesterday’s.Trump’s America is brutal, perverse, regressive, insular and afraid. There is no hope in it; there is no light in it. It is a vast expanse of darkness and desolation.And that is a vision of America that most of the people in this country cannot and will not abide. That is a vision of America that has galvanized ordinary American citizens in opposition in a way that is almost without precedent. We are inching toward anarchy as both the people and the president refuse to back down.Not only is Trump a literacy-lite, conspiracy-chasing, compulsively lying bigot, he is also a narcissistic workaholic who now wields the power of the presidency. You could not have conceived of a more dangerous combination of characteristics. He is the paragon of the clueless and an idol of the Ku Kluxers. Already, people feel deluged by a never-ending flood of national damage and despair. But Americans are not prone to suffering in silence. America’s period of mourning has ended; the time of anger and active opposition has dawned. The greatest two motivators of electoral activism in this country are a desire for change and durable fear: In Trump, those two are wed.The most recent move to excite and outrage the opposition was Trump’s move to “indefinitely suspend the resettlement of Syrian refugees and temporarily ban people from seven predominantly Muslim nations from entering the United States,” according to a New York Times editorial.The ban is nonsensical and likely unconstitutional, as well as chaotic and damaging to our national security interests.As The Times noted Saturday: “Since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, no one has been killed in the United States in a terrorist attack by anyone who emigrated from or whose parents emigrated from Syria, Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen, the seven countries targeted in the order’s 120-day visa ban, according to Charles Kurzman, a sociology professor at the University of North Carolina.”The report continued: “There was a random quality to the list of countries: It excluded Saudi Arabia and Egypt, where the founders of Al Qaeda and many other jihadist groups have originated. Also excluded are Pakistan and Afghanistan, where persistent extremism and decades of war have produced militants who have occasionally reached the United States. Notably, perhaps, the list avoided Muslim countries where Mr. Trump has major business ventures.”Furthermore, as CNN reported on Sunday, on Friday night the Department of Homeland Security decided that the restrictions “did not apply to people with lawful permanent residence, generally referred to as green card holders.”The report continued, however: “The White House overruled that guidance overnight, according to officials familiar with the rollout. That order came from the President’s inner circle, led by Stephen Miller and Steve Bannon.”Yes, that Steve Bannon, the one who was recruited to the Trump campaign from his job as executive chairman of Breitbart News and is now Trump’s chief strategist, the one who said of Breitbart to Mother Jones in July: “We’re the platform for the alt-right.” Alt-right is just a slick, euphemistic repackaging and relabeling of white nationalists, whether they be white separatists, white supremacists or actual Nazis.Also, as The Wall Street Journal reported on Sunday, Trump added Bannon to the National Security Council while removing the director of national intelligence and the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. This is outrageous. What does Bannon know about national security? It is becoming worrisome that in this reign of bigotry, Bannon may be the brain and Trump the brawn; Bannon the spiritual president and Trump the spurious packaging.America will not stand for this, so if obsequious conservative politicians or lily-livered liberal ones won’t sufficiently stand up to this demagogic dictator, then the American people will do the job themselves.Over the weekend, protesters spontaneously popped up at airports across the country to send an unambiguous message: Not in our name; not on our watch. It is my great hope that this will be a permanent motif of Trump’s term. If no one else is going to fight for American values, it falls to the American people themselves to do so.
To the Editor:Re “Obama Shouldn’t Go Quietly” (Op-Ed, Jan. 20):As Robert Dallek discussed, there is a long history of former presidents speaking out, and the lack of any clear national leader for the Democratic Party makes Barack Obama the natural choice. If Mr. Obama chooses to do so, he should use Rule XIX, Clause 8, of the Standing Rules of the Senate, a little-known provision that gives former presidents the legal right to address the Senate upon prior notice.According to the Senate Historical Office, this rule has never been exercised before. I can think of no better time, nor a better way, to grab the nation’s attention and provide a calming, stabilizing voice.SCOTT D. SALMONWestfield, N.J.
President Trump signed an executive order curtailing immigration and the rights of refugees.
In this virtual reality experience, “Orbital Vanitas,” you are placed inside an enormous human skull that is orbiting above the earth. The atmosphere reflects my current mood in both political and philosophical terms — which is very dark indeed.The work is also the result of my obsession with skulls through the history of Western art, known as the tradition of Vanitas, and its reminder of our imminent death. Here, I have placed that skull and all that it symbolizes within the dark void of space. I imagined the skull approaching and then engulfing you, as if it were the mysterious surviving fragment of a lost science fiction film.Against this meditation on our own mortality, I also hoped to display the beauty of the earth, sun and surrounding field of stars. So “Orbital Vanitas” is my attempt to connect the concepts of Vanitas and the sublime through the medium of virtual reality.But it wasn’t enough to just look at this orbiting skull from an outside perspective. Since the beginning of civilization, we have represented the exterior form of our own skulls. I wanted to go a step further and enter the interior landscape of the skull. Through virtual reality, the skull transforms into an enormous planet in itself.The bone structure within this anatomically correct but large-scale skull becomes its own extraordinary landscape. For example, the part of the sphenoid bone known as the Turkish saddle, becomes the edge of a sheer limestone cliff that we float over. The eye socket (or “orbit” in Latin) takes on the appearance of a complex cave system that we slowly fall through.So “Orbital Vanitas” is both a celebration of virtual reality and also a critique. We have been locked into our own heads — our senses arrested by a technology that offers us images without frames. Within this medium, the human skull resembles Plato’s allegory of the cave: We imprison ourselves within flickering illusions and simulations.What we have devised with the space of our skulls now influences that other sphere we float above — the entire earth.This virtual reality experience is part of a series produced by independent filmmakers who have received support from the nonprofit Sundance Institute.
It started at the inauguration, when the uniformed protectors of America’s front lawn took in the sweep of humanity at the National Mall. It seemed obvious that the crowd for President Trump was not nearly as large as that for Barack Obama in 2009. Somebody in olive green retweeted the obvious, using comparative pictures.This small act of historical clarification by the keepers of our sacred sites and shared spaces would have been no big deal, had not the response from the new president sounded like an edict from the Dear Leader. A gag order on public servants was issued, and the National Park Service tweet on crowd size vanished, replaced by a picture of a bison.But then, flares of defiance! The response to the dawning realization that a crazy man had taken over the White House was truth. From Badlands National Park came a tweet about more carbon dioxide in the atmosphere than any time in the last 650,000 years. From the Redwood park, a note about the saving grace of ancient trees. From Death Valley, a reminder that Japanese-Americans had once been interned there.Heroes in uniform? No, not by normal standards in normal times. Informing people is what park rangers do. Anyone who has ever listened to a narrative of what happened on the bloodiest single day in American history at Antietam National Battlefield, or heard an explanation for the geysers at Yellowstone, can appreciate the professional knowledge.But in the Trump era, snippets of useful information from dedicated public employees are more like the signals that a survivor’s beacon sends out after being buried by an avalanche. In this case, the beeps represent science, history, facts.Trump is delusional in his obsession with his numbers, with his size. He has to be the biggest, the greatest, the best — all facts to the contrary. Everything he touches is phenomenal, and his opponents are garbage. But does a pathological liar really want to pick a fight with the caretakers of America’s Best Idea?The Park Service, having just concluded its centennial year, has never been more popular. Visits to the scenic wonderlands, historic sites and graveyards of great consequence smashed records in 2015. Early indications are that when numbers are in for 2016, another record will have fallen. At the same time, while people don’t much like “government” in the abstract, anecdotal surveys show that people like the Park Service.That’s one side. On the other is Trump, who moved into the White House with the lowest approval rating of a modern president-elect. And after just a few days in office, his numbers, too, broke a record: Gallup reported that he is the first president in their polling history to receive an initial job approval rating below 50 percent. This can change. And state-run television — that is, the people at Fox News — are doing everything they can to polish that lump of coal.Trump supporters say there’s no story here; all incoming administrations try to get everybody on the same page before sending messages to the public. It’s routine.But what is different with this administration, from that very first attempt to snuff a truth about the size of the crowd on the lovingly restored National Mall grass, is they’re trying to institutionalize lying. The fish is going to stink from the head down.Don’t expect useful reports from the Environmental Protection Agency on, say, the safety of your municipal drinking water, if it reflects badly on the insecure man residing at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue. With the Trump administration, the routine tweets of National Park Service employees about carbon buildup, or history, can look like sedition.Here’s a suggestion: Go rogue, you lovable park rangers and biologists; tell the truth about science, you nerds in funny hats and badges. Let Trump’s thought police come after you at Golden Gate for tweeting that “2016 was the hottest year on record for the third year in a row.” Oh, the audacity of science!These employees are protected by Civil Service laws, including many hatched by Teddy Roosevelt. Speaking of which, look what popped up from the Theodore Roosevelt Inaugural Site in Buffalo, a quotation from T.R. on free speech: “a necessity in any country where the people are free.” Or has that just been snuffed as well?So far, the taxpayer-funded lies coming out the White House are largely inconsequential — always with the crowd size, and the chimera about millions of illegal voters denying Trump the popular vote. He will try, yet no amount of huffing and puffing can change the fact that no president has entered office with a larger loss of the popular vote.But what are we to do when the edict to lie or suppress is about a foreign threat? A reason to go to war? Or job numbers that don’t fit a rosy scenario? When that happens, look to the Park Service to clarify that those are tears, not raindrops, on the cheeks of the Statue of Liberty.
To the Editor:In “The Politics of Cowardice” (column, Jan. 27), David Brooks addresses high school and college students, and rightly so. Today’s young adults are especially vulnerable to the “mean wind” that’s blowing, but whether we allow them to get swept up in the gust is up to us.As a lifelong educator, I’ve learned that the transition between high school and college is a special and largely overlooked opportunity to prepare our next generation of leaders for the realities of our interconnected world. As our president closes borders and stokes a politics of fear, it’s more important than ever that our young people develop the global perspective to know that “foreign” doesn’t mean “enemy.”As Mr. Brooks suggests, this is not about grooming young Republicans or Democrats. It’s about seeding a generation of leaders who have the conviction to put their values first, in politics and beyond.Hope and optimism are as contagious as fear. Let this moment be a call to counter cowardice with courage, and let’s make sure that every young person in America has the opportunity to learn the difference.ABBY FALIKOakland, Calif.The writer is the founder and chief executive of Global Citizen Year, a nonprofit to build the next generation of leaders through a global “bridge year” between high school and college.
Plenty of presidents have had prominent political advisers, and some of those advisers have been suspected of quietly setting policy behind the scenes (recall Karl Rove or, if your memory stretches back far enough, Dick Morris). But we’ve never witnessed a political aide move as brazenly to consolidate power as Stephen Bannon — nor have we seen one do quite so much damage so quickly to his putative boss’s popular standing or pretenses of competence.Mr. Bannon supercharged Breitbart News as a platform for inciting the alt-right, did the same with the Trump campaign and is now repeating the act with the Trump White House itself. That was perhaps to be expected, though the speed with which President Trump has moved to alienate Mexicans (by declaring they would pay for a border wall), Jews (by disregarding their unique experience of the Holocaust) and Muslims (the ban) has been impressive. Mr. Trump never showed much inclination to reach beyond the minority base of voters that delivered his Electoral College victory, and Mr. Bannon, whose fingerprints were on each of those initiatives, is helping make sure he doesn’t.But a new executive order, politicizing the process for national security decisions, suggests Mr. Bannon is positioning himself not merely as a Svengali but as the de facto president.In that new order, issued on Saturday, Mr. Trump took the unprecedented step of naming Mr. Bannon to the National Security Council, along with the secretaries of state and defense and certain other top officials. President George W. Bush’s last chief of staff, Joshua Bolten, was so concerned about separating politics from national security that he barred Mr. Rove, Mr. Bush’s political adviser, from N.S.C. meetings. To the annoyance of experienced foreign policy aides, David Axelrod, President Barack Obama’s political adviser, sat in on some N.S.C. meetings, but he was not a permanent member of the council.More telling still, Mr. Trump appointed Mr. Bannon to the N.S.C. “principals’ committee,” which includes most of those same top officials and meets far more frequently. At the same time, President Trump downgraded two senior national security officials — the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, a role now held by Gen. Joseph Dunford Jr., and the director of national intelligence, the job that Dan Coats, a former member of the Senate Intelligence Committee and former ambassador to Germany, has been nominated to fill.All this may seem like boring bureaucratic chart-making, but who sits at the National Security Council table when the administration debates issues of war and peace can make a real difference in decisions. In giving Mr. Bannon an official role in national security policy making, Mr. Trump has not simply broken with tradition but has embraced the risk of politicizing national security, or giving the impression of doing so.Mr. Trump’s order says that the chairman of the Joint Chiefs and the director of national intelligence will attend the principals’ committee meetings only “where issues pertaining to their responsibilities and expertise are to be discussed.” Could there be any national security discussions when input from the intelligence agencies and the military will not be required? People in those jobs are often the ones to tell presidents hard truths, even when they are unwelcome.As his first week in office amply demonstrated, Mr. Trump has no grounding in national security decision making, no sophistication in governance and little apparent grasp of what it takes to lead a great diverse nation. He needs to hear from experienced officials, like General Dunford. But Mr. Bannon has positioned himself, along with Mr. Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, as the president’s most trusted aide, shutting out other voices that might offer alternative views. He is now reportedly eclipsing the national security adviser, retired Lt. Gen. Michael Flynn.While Mr. Trump long ago embraced Mr. Bannon’s politics, he would be wise to reconsider allowing him to run his White House, particularly after the fiasco over the weekend of the risible Muslim ban. Mr. Bannon helped push that order through without consulting Mr. Trump’s own experts at the Department of Homeland Security or even seeking deliberation by the N.S.C. itself. The administration’s subsequent modifications, the courtroom reversals and the international furor have made the president look not bold and decisive but simply incompetent.As a candidate, Mr. Trump was immensely gratified by the applause at his rallies for Mr. Bannon’s jingoism. Yet now casually weaponized in executive orders, those same ideas are alienating American allies and damaging the presidency.Presidents are entitled to pick their advisers. But Mr. Trump’s first spasms of policy making have supplied ample evidence that he needs advisers who can think strategically and weigh second- and third-order consequences beyond the immediate domestic political effects. Imagine tomorrow if Mr. Trump is faced with a crisis involving China in the South China Sea or Russia in Ukraine. Will he look to his chief political provocateur, Mr. Bannon, with his penchant for blowing things up, or will he turn at last for counsel to the few more thoughtful experienced hands in his administration, like Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and General Dunford?
This newspaper has periodically, to its shame, succumbed to the kind of xenophobic fearmongering that President Trump is now trying to make American policy.In 1875, The Times sternly warned that too many Irish and German immigrants (like the Trumps) could “deprive Americans by birth and descent of the small share they yet retain” in New York City.In 1941, The Times cautioned in a front-page article that European Jews desperately seeking American visas might be Nazi spies. In 1942, as Japanese-Americans were being interned, The Times cheerfully suggested that the detainees were happily undertaking an “adventure.”We make bad decisions when we fear immigrants we “otherize.” That’s why Americans burned Irish Catholics alive, banned Chinese for decades, denied visas to Anne Frank’s family and interned Japanese-Americans. And yes, The New York Times sometimes participated in such madness.But we will not be part of that today.Trump signed an  executive order on Friday that suspends refugee programs and targets Muslims from certain countries. It’s hypocritical for Trump to be today’s avatar of hostility to immigrants, since his own family suffered from anti-German sentiment and pretended to be Swedish. But I’m indignant for a more personal reason — and I’m getting to that.Kirk W. Johnson, a former American aid official in Iraq, fears that the executive order will bar military interpreters who have bled for America and to whom we have promised entry. He told me about one interpreter, nicknamed Homeboy, who ran through fire to rescue a wounded American soldier, and then was himself shot. Homeboy survived, barely, but lost his leg — and as he recovered, a grenade was thrown at his home by insurgents angry that he had helped Americans.After years of vetting, Homeboy was approved for a visa for interpreters who helped the United States. Does Trump really want to betray such people who risked more for America than Trump himself ever did?Yet if fear and obliviousness have led us periodically to target refugees, there’s also another thread that runs through American history. It’s reflected in the welcome received by somebody I deeply admire: Wladyslaw Krzysztofowicz. And this is personal.Raised in what was then Romania and is now Ukraine, Krzysztofowicz was jailed by the Gestapo for assisting an anti-Nazi spy for the West. His aunt was murdered in Auschwitz for similar spying, but he was freed with a bribe. When World War II was ending, he fled his home as it fell into the hands of the Soviets.After imprisonment in a Yugoslav concentration camp, he made it to Italy and then France, but he couldn’t get a work permit, and he thought that neither he nor any children he might later have would ever be fully accepted in France.So he dreamed of traveling to America, which he had heard would be open to all. He explored a fake marriage to an American woman to get a visa, but that fell through. Finally he met an American woman working in Paris who convinced her family back in Portland, Ore., to sponsor him, along with their church, the First Presbyterian Church of Portland.As Krzysztofowicz stood on the deck of the ship Marseille, approaching New York Harbor in 1952, a white-haired woman from Boston chatted with him and quoted the famous lines from the Statue of Liberty, “Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free ….” Krzysztofowicz spoke little English and didn’t understand, so she wrote them down for him and handed him the paper, saying, “Keep it as a souvenir, young man.”Then as she was walking away, she corrected herself: “young American.”Krzysztofowicz kept that scrap of paper and marveled that he — a refugee who had repeatedly faced death in the Old Country for not belonging — now somehow counted as an American even before he had set foot on American soil, even before he had learned English. It was an inclusiveness that dazzled him, that kindled a love for America that he passed on to his son.That strand of hospitality represents the best of this country. The church sponsored Krzysztofowicz even though he wasn’t a Presbyterian, even though he was Eastern European at a time when the Communist bloc posed an existential threat to America. He could have been a spy or a terrorist.But he wasn’t. After arriving in Oregon, he decided that the name Krzysztofowicz was unworkable for Americans, so he shortened it to Kristof. He was my dad.Recently I returned to the First Presbyterian Church to thank the congregation for taking a risk and sponsoring my father, who died in 2010. And the church, I’m delighted to say, is moving to support a refugee family this year.Mr. President, please remember: This is a country built by refugees and immigrants, your ancestors and mine. When we bar them and vilify them, we shame our own roots.
If the Affordable Care Act is repealed, coverage of birth control with no co-payment is one of many benefits that Americans could lose. Now legislators in Oregon have introduced a bill intended to protect access to birth control in the state, along with a broad range of other reproductive health care services, including abortion.The measure would require insurers in Oregon to cover all contraceptive drugs and devices approved by the Food and Drug Administration with no co-payment, co-insurance or deductible. It would extend the same requirement to a number of reproductive health services, including prenatal care, well-woman visits, screening for sexually transmitted infections, voluntary sterilization and abortion.The bill also includes a provision that would prohibit insurers from discriminating against patients based on gender identity — for example, by refusing to cover gynecological exams for transgender women.Under the Affordable Care Act, 30 million women gained co-pay-free access to preventive services like contraception, according to an estimate by the Department of Health and Human Services. An increase in the use of long-acting birth control methods has helped decrease the rates of unintended pregnancy and abortion nationwide.By codifying the protections of the Affordable Care Act, the bill would protect Oregonians’ access to birth control and other preventive health care in the event of a repeal.But the Oregon bill would go beyond the Affordable Care Act by establishing a comprehensive list of essential reproductive health services that must be covered without a co-payment. Its sponsors recognized that people need access to the full range of reproductive health care in order to participate fully in society and the economy. Especially for patients with high-deductible health plans, abortion can be prohibitively expensive even if it is covered.The bill, which is expected to come up for debate in March, may serve as a model for other states. New York is already moving in the right direction, with regulations announced this month to require insurers to provide co-pay-free coverage of contraceptives and abortions deemed medically necessary by a doctor.Oregon’s bill is a powerful defense, at the state level, of necessary reproductive health care.
To the Editor:Re “How to Make a Masterpiece in Fake News” (front page, Jan. 19):Cameron Harris’s composition and dissemination of fake news should disqualify him from his desired employment as a professional political consultant. But why do I fear that, in our current climate, he has merely burnished his credentials?DAVID D. TURNERNew YorkTo the Editor:Publishing fake news to influence the price of a stock is a serious federal crime. Publishing fake news that is designed to influence votes in federal elections should be, too. It’s that simple.BRUCE WHITESt. Paul
No society is immune to acts of terrorism, especially by a lone wolf driven by deep hatreds. The United States has known many mass shootings; Norway had the mass murderer Anders Behring Breivik; in France last July, a man drove a truck into a crowd in Nice, killing dozens; the list could go on and on. When they strike, the measure of a wounded society is how it responds.On Sunday, Quebec City was struck when, officials say, a 27-year-old student named Alexandre Bissonnette, known to be a right-wing extremist, walked into a mosque, began shooting and killed six people. The shock across Canada was immediate and tangible: Tolerance is a proud theme in Canadian identity — the country has taken in nearly 40,000 Syrian refugees since late 2015 when Prime Minister Justin Trudeau took office. Now Canadians were wondering how this could have happened, and what it means — a question made more acute by their widespread revulsion at President Trump’s actions to block Muslims from the United States.The response of Quebec’s premier, Philippe Couillard, is worth noting. “Every society has to deal with demons,” he said. “Our society is not perfect. None is. These demons are named xenophobia, racism, exclusion. They are present here. We need to recognize that and act together to show the direction we want our society to evolve.”That was what Canadians sought to do. Thousands gathered at memorial services across the country, including Mr. Trudeau on Monday. Speaking earlier to Parliament, he addressed the more than one million Muslim Canadians: “Thirty-six million hearts are breaking with yours,” he said, referring to the population of Canada. “Know that we value you.”In sad contrast, the reaction from Mr. Trump’s White House was to use the shootings to justify its anti-immigrant policies. The attack was a “terrible reminder,” said the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, of why America’s actions must be “proactive, rather than reactive.” The logic, or illogic, seemed to be that if Muslims had been kept out of Canada, they would not have been murdered.Canada is not perfect; it, too, has its demons, as Mr. Couillard said. But the response of a democratic society must be to reaffirm its fundamental faith in freedom, including the freedom to practice one’s faith and cultural traditions. In Quebec, the demons took a terrible toll, but the country’s commitment to inclusion was, if anything, strengthened.
Modern conservatism, at least in its pre-Donald Trump incarnation, evolved to believe in a marriage of Edmund Burke and Milton Friedman, in which the wisdom of tradition and the wisdom of free markets were complementary ideas. Both, in their different ways, delivered a kind of bottom-up democratic wisdom — the first through the cumulative experiments of the human past, the second through the contemporary experiments enabled by choice and competition.In health care policy, however, conservatives tend to simply favor Friedman over Burke. That is, the right’s best health care minds believe that markets and competition can deliver lower costs and better care, and they believe it even though there is no clear example of a modern health care system built along the lines that they desire.The dominant systems in the developed world, whether government-run or single-payer or Obamacare-esque, are generally statist to degrees that conservatives deplore. A few of them — notably Singapore’s, the beau ideal of right-wing health care wonks — do have distinctive elements that conservatives favor. But mostly they tend to be much more heavily regulated and subsidized than the system that conservative health policy wonks and policy-literate Republicans would like to see take over from Obamacare.Which is not to say that the conservative health policy vision lacks empirical grounding. There is compelling evidence that markets in health care can do more to lower costs and prices than liberals allow, and good reasons to think that free-market competition produces more medical innovation than more socialized systems.But still — there is no existing system on a national scale that looks like the health care system that Paul Ryan or Tom Price would design, no wisdom of developed-economy experience that proves that such a system would actually keep overall costs low and prevent too many people from being shut out of insurance markets. So embracing even the smartest conservative Obamacare alternative requires a not-precisely-Burkean leap of faith.And this, in a nutshell, is why Republicans should give serious consideration to the proposal that Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana and Senator Susan Collins of Maine have just put forward as a possible health care reform alternative.The essence of Cassidy-Collins, and the reason that many Republicans don’t like it, is that it isn’t actually a full Obamacare replacement. Instead, it’s a federalist compromise. It lets individual state governments decide whether they want to stick with Obamacare or not, which would mean that the law would remain intact in most blue states for the time being, while redder states would have the opportunity to turn roughly the same amount of money (95 percent) to a different end.That end would look like one of the more plausible conservative alternatives to Obamacare: a subsidy to cover the cost of a catastrophic health insurance plan, plus a directly funded health savings account to cover primary care.This system could be layered on top of the existing Medicaid expansion, replacing only the Obamacare subsidies and exchanges, or it could replace the Medicaid expansion as well, offering the poor and near poor the same “catastrophic insurance plus a subsidy” as everyone else in the individual market. Either way the individual mandate would disappear, but people would be auto-enrolled in a catastrophic plan (with the option to opt out), meaning that coverage would be nearly universal (thus fulfilling one of President Trump’s various promises) even though its benefits would be less comprehensive than Obamacare’s.Taken as a whole, this approach distills both the promise and the peril of conservative health care policy. The promise is that by having people pay for more of their health care in cash and by giving them more freedom in what plans they’re allowed to buy, you would end up with less spending, lower prices and less cost inflation. (And you wouldn’t need the heavy, innovation-squashing price controls that single-payer systems use to get there.)The peril is that there would be too wide a gap between what the money in your health savings account covers and what you need before your catastrophic coverage kicks in. In which case many people with consistent health care costs for chronic problems would rack up impossible medical bills in short order.Conservatives who want this model to replace Obamacare nationwide believe that the promise outweighs the risk — and this is, again, a reasonable belief. But it’s also a belief that hasn’t been tested on any kind of sweeping, economywide scale. And this is the advantage of Cassidy-Collins: It encourages governors and legislators to actually put the conservative theory of health care to the test without simply reversing the ideological colors of the great Obamacare experiment and immediately turning the entire United States health care system over to the right’s technocratic vision.Of course this would mean that Obamacare’s existing problems would persist in the states where it continues. But those problems — the rise in premiums, the fleeing insurers, the risk of a death spiral downstream — are not equally problematic in every state, and they are not fiscally dangerous, as yet, on the scale that many conservatives initially feared.As the conservative policy thinker Yuval Levin wrote late last year, the striking thing about Obamacare to date is how much smaller than expected its effect on the overall health care system has been. Fewer people are being insured on the exchanges than liberals hoped, fewer employers are dumping high-cost employees onto the exchanges than conservatives feared, and as a result, he writes:This containment means that conservatives have room and time to be more patient, cautious and experimental than were the Obama Democrats before them. If the Obamacare exchanges aren’t ultimately going to work out, then allowing them to persist in liberal states while an alternative system gets set up in red states is a reasonable way to gradually transition from the liberal model toward the conservative one. If the right’s wonks are right about health policy, the Cassidy-Collins approach should — gradually — enable conservatives to prove it.And if the right is wrong, if its model doesn’t match reality, if people are simply miserable as health care consumers because the system has too much of Friedman and not enough of Burke — well, in that case both the country and conservatism will be better off if we learn that via a voter rebellion in 10 right-leaning states, rather than through a much more widespread backlash against a nationwide health-insurance failure. (Which is something a president with a high self-regard and poor approval ratings might have a particular reason to avoid.)Between this reasonable case and legislative reality, of course, falls a variety of shadows. But more than for the various repeal-and-replace alternatives? I’m not so sure.Right now the Cassidy-Collins compromise has few enthusiastic backers. In a few months, however, it might turn into conservative health care reform’s best hope.
Among the first of President Trump’s flurry of executive orders were a pair targeting the federal government for an overhaul. Hours after his inauguration, his administration issued an order freezing federal rule-making pending an administration review, quickly followed by an order freezing federal employee hiring in most nonmilitary agencies.Speaking with corporate chief executives last week, Mr. Trump said he aims to cut the number of federal regulations by 75 percent. He has said this before, his promise soaring as high as 80 percent.Most incoming administrations promise to streamline government, and most also freeze last-minute rules that their predecessors have been unable to finalize. Mr. Trump’s blanket federal hiring freeze is a proven loser tried by presidents of both parties, and his talk of slashing most regulations is pure fantasy.Unfinished Obama rules swept up in the freeze include regulations aimed at making certain appliances more energy efficient, save consumers money and reduce greenhouse gases.Unfinished rules, however, are the easy prey. Cutting three-quarters of the 90,000 federal regulations already on the books is sheer folly. To roll back even one rule requires a whole new rule-making procedure — writing a draft rule, taking public comment, writing a final rule, more comment, and so on — that takes many months. The process, while imperfect, is designed to prevent a president or Congress from capriciously slashing regulations which, after all, were created to protect Americans, their workplaces and environment.Mr. Trump’s team, aiming to undo Mr. Obama’s environmental record, has targeted a lot of important stuff — greenhouse gas regulations for power plants, fuel economy standards for cars and trucks, a long overdue rule updating the Clean Water Act. But Mr. Trump cannot eliminate or even modify these rules with the simple stroke of a pen.As for the federal hiring freeze, this, too, has been tried before, with uncertain results. Presidents Carter and Reagan both learned that while a sweeping freeze looks like common-sense budget-cutting, it can actually cost money. President Carter froze full-time hiring three times, so agencies simply hired more part-timers, temps and contractors. As a result, federal employment actually rose during two of the three freezes. Using an ax rather than a scalpel, across-the-board hiring freezes target all agencies regardless of workload or mission. Between 2010 and 2014, for instance, staff reductions at the Internal Revenue Service held up tax enforcement and collection, costing the government $2 billion in revenue in 2015.Can Mr. Trump do better? The prospects are poor. He appears to have little understanding of how the federal government is organized and functions, and his skeletal staff is still trying to learn. He hasn’t yet appointed people to lead most of the agencies affected by these changes, and his “beachhead teams,” 600 people who began meeting with federal agencies last week, have so little government experience that they can’t provide much guidance.Mr. Trump relishes his boldface proclamations. “President Trump Takes Action,” his news releases say. He’s been signing his executive orders on TV, holding them up and explaining them aloud, like story hour in the Oval Office. Maybe these pledges will actually streamline government in a positive way, instead of undermining it, as the ideologues around the president seem to want. But so far, they are mainly show.
Brutally rejecting the people’s will, South Dakota’s Republican-controlled Legislature is rushing to repeal a vital ethics reform referendum approved by voters in November.The 52 percent of voters who approved the anticorruption referendum were “hoodwinked by scam artists,” Gov. Dennis Daugaard, a Republican, brazenly insisted, as he promised to sign the repeal. The referendum called for the creation of an independent ethics commission to investigate abuses by statehouse politicians and lobbyists, a public financing option to reduce election spending and a $100 annual limit on lobbyists’ gifts to elected officials.The Republican-dominated committee that approved the repeal bill did so under South Dakota’s “state of emergency” provision that would prevent voters from reversing the repeal with another referendum.This was not only shameless but cunning. In 2014, lawmakers excluded teenagers from a voter-approved referendum to raise the state minimum wage, claiming (as they did this time) that South Dakota’s citizens did not know what they were doing. To their dismay, voters overruled them by a huge majority in a subsequent referendum in November, successfully raising the minimum wage for all workers.Republican legislators — more eager for political revenge than mindful of the voice of the people — are now debating a bill that would double the number of signatures required to place referendums on the state ballot. Anyone wondering why South Dakota is ranked 47th in the nation for public accountability by the nonpartisan Center for Public Integrity need look no further than these multiple efforts to subvert the public will.As the rollback moved this week toward approval, Republican lawmakers sounded hollow in promising their own ethics substitute. “We are pretty squeaky clean,” a Republican state representative, Larry Rhoden, ludicrously maintained as the G.O.P. machine snuffed out the democratic process.
One aspect of Donald Trump that has particularly bothered me has been his denunciations of immigrants. Maybe that’s partly because I’m a son of a refugee, or maybe it just seems unfair to scapegoat people who are powerless and struggling, or maybe it just seems hypocritical. In any case, I prepared this video that tells a special story about Trump and immigration. The best recommendation for it? He’ll hate it!This is the first of several videos I made with Show of Force as part of their project called Humanity on the Move, addressing forced migration and the global refugee crisis. A special thanks to the team there, especially Jessica Chermayeff and Ana Veselic, for making it with me. If you’re sneaking ahead and reading this without having watched the video, I don’t want to give anything away — but let’s just say that I hope the video will make people realize that we are all descendants of immigrants. If you’re a Native American, maybe your ancestors came 15,000 years ago; if you’re English, perhaps 400 years ago; if you’re like me, you’re a more recent vintage (three of my four grandparents were born abroad, and all four of my wife’s grandparents were born abroad).Yes, immigration brings challenges, including security risks that we’ve seen with terrorism. Yes, there are economic challenges, with immigrants sometimes displacing low-skilled workers in particular. But above all, immigrants bring hard work, diversity and global connections. On balance, they strengthen this country. So we can’t have open borders, but neither should we vilify immigrants and scapegoat them. Because they are us. Right, Mr. Trump?
Our objective in making this film was something of a psychology experiment: We sought to capture people facing a difficult situation, to make a portrait of humans in doubt. We’ve all seen actors playing doubt in fiction films, but we have few true images of the feeling in documentaries. To make them, we decided to put people in a situation powerful enough not to need any classic narrative framework. A high dive seemed like the perfect scenario.Through an online advertisement, we found 67 people who had never been on a 10-meter (about 33 feet) diving tower before, and had never jumped from that high. We paid each of them the equivalent of about $30 to participate — which meant climbing up to the diving board and walking to its edge. We were as interested in the people who decided to climb back down as the ones jumping.We filmed it all with six cameras and several microphones. It was important for us not to conceal the fact that this was an arranged situation, and thus we chose to show the microphones within the frame. Ultimately, about 70 percent of those who climbed did jump. We noticed that the presence of the camera as well as the social pressure (from those awaiting their turn beside the pool) pushed some of the participants to jump, which made their behavior even more interesting.In our films, which we often call studies, we want to portray human behavior, rather than tell our own stories about it. We hope the result is a series of meaningful references, in the form of moving images. “Ten Meter Tower” may take place in Sweden, but we think it elucidates something essentially human, that transcends culture and origins. Overcoming our most cautious impulses with bravery unites all humankind. It’s something that has shaped us through the ages.‘Ten Meter Tower’ appeared at the 2017 Sundance Film Festival. It is part of a series produced by independent filmmakers who have received support from the nonprofit Sundance Institute.
It is now two and one-half minutes to midnight.Our organization, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, is marking the 70th anniversary of its Doomsday Clock on Thursday by moving it 30 seconds closer to midnight. In 2016, the global security landscape darkened as the international community failed to come to grips with humanity’s most pressing threats: nuclear weapons and climate change.Making matters worse, the United States now has a president who has promised to impede progress on both of those fronts. Never before has the Bulletin decided to advance the clock largely because of the statements of a single person. But when that person is the new president of the United States, his words matter.This is the closest to midnight that the clock has been since 1953, when it was moved to two minutes to midnight after United States and the Soviet Union tested their first thermonuclear weapons within six months of one another.We understand that Mr. Trump has been in office only days, that many of his cabinet nominees are awaiting confirmation and that he has had little time to take official action.But Mr. Trump’s statements and actions have been unsettling. He has made ill-considered comments about expanding and even deploying the American nuclear arsenal. He has expressed disbelief in the scientific consensus on global warming. He has shown a troubling propensity to discount or reject expert advice related to international security. And his nominees to head the Energy Department, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Office of Management and the Budget have disputed or questioned climate change.Last year, and the year before, we warned that world leaders were failing to act with the speed and on the scale necessary to protect citizens from the extreme dangers posed by climate change and nuclear war. During the past year, the need for leadership intensified but was met with inaction and brinkmanship.Other factors that led the committee to advance the Doomsday Clock included:• North Korea’s continuing nuclear weapons development, the steady march of arsenal modernization programs in the nuclear weapon states, simmering tension between nuclear-armed India and Pakistan, and stagnation in arms control. Russia is building new silo-based missiles, the new Borei class of nuclear ballistic missile submarines and new rail-mobile missiles as it revamps other intercontinental ballistic missiles. The United States is moving ahead with plans to modernize each part of its triad (bombers, land-based missiles and missile carrying submarines), adding capabilities, such as cruise missiles with increased ranges. As it improves the survivability of its own nuclear forces, China is helping Pakistan build submarine platforms. And Pakistan and India continue to update and expand their nuclear arsenals.•Doubt over the future of the Iran nuclear deal, which succeeded in accomplishing its goals during its first year, in the Trump administration.•Deteriorating relations between the United States and Russia, which possess more than 90 percent of the world’s nuclear weapons. This was reflected in disputes over Ukraine, Syria, ballistic missile defenses in Europe and election interference. There seems to be little prospect that negotiations to reduce nuclear arms will resume. Whether this will improve under President Trump is unclear.•Mixed results in global efforts to limit climate change. The Paris climate accord went into effect in 2016, and countries are taking some actions to bring down emissions of greenhouse gases. There are encouraging signs that global annual emissions were flat this past year, though there is no assurance this heralds a trend.These are all matters in which President Trump has signaled that he would make matters worse either because of a mistaken belief that the threats posed by nuclear weapons and climate can be ignored or that the words of a president of the United States do not matter to the rest of the world.
LONDON — For Ghassan and Sarmad Assali, naturalized Americans from Syria, 14 years of efforts to bring their family to the United States from Damascus unraveled this weekend at the stroke of Donald Trump’s pen.They had applied in 2003 for Ghassan’s two brothers and their families to join them in Allentown, Pa., where Ghassan works as a dentist. Finally, last month, after an interview in Jordan, the relatives were granted immigrant visas. The Assalis bought and furnished a house for them.“They landed at 7:45 a.m. Saturday,” said Sarmad, who goes by the name Sue. “We got a call from Philadelphia airport telling us if you’re waiting for somebody they’re not coming out. My husband said, ‘You’re joking.’ ”The family was sent back to Damascus, arriving Sunday night.Of course, Trump cares nothing for the plight of the Assalis’ Damascus relatives, who arrived about 15 hours after the president signed an executive order on Friday suspending all immigration from Syria and six other mainly Muslim countries, and barring entry of Syrian refugees indefinitely. In fact, he cares nothing for Syria. Trump’s airy mention of creating safe zones in the war-ravaged country was an example of how the American president’s word — the basis of global stability since 1945 — has already ceased to mean anything. It’s noise.Trump insisted his decision was designed to keep America safe, but the measure was rushed, uncoordinated, sloppy, arbitrary and punitive — the work of an impulsive man driven by anti-Muslim prejudice. Hatched by his inner circle in contempt of normal procedure, it has provoked a crisis. Trump has fired the acting attorney general who questioned its legality.People are now stranded, many diplomats at the State Department outraged (Trump has told them to quit), allies agitated, artists and athletes disgusted by this un-American act. Former President Barack Obama, scarcely out of office, has dissented.As my colleague Scott Shane noted, citing studies by Charles Kurzman, a sociologist at the University of North Carolina, no one since 9/11 “has been killed in the United States in a terrorist attack by anyone who emigrated from or whose parents emigrated from Syria, Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen.”A draft dissent memo circulating at the State Department noted that, “A vanishingly small number of terror attacks on U.S. soil have been committed by foreign nationals who recently entered the United States on an immigrant or nonimmigrant visa.”It said: “We are better than this ban.”As Benjamin Wittes, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, observed of Trump’s order on the Lawfare blog: “This is not a document that will cause hardship and misery because of regrettable incidental impacts on people injured in the pursuit of a public good. It will cause hardship and misery for tens or hundreds of thousands of people because that is precisely what it is intended to do.”And here we get to the president’s character, doubly important when, as in the Trump White House, personality dominates process.For well over a decade Trump hosted a successful TV show that hinged on a spectacle of controlled cruelty — his summary dismissal of a contestant with the words “You’re fired!” All the action built toward the tantalizing moment when Trump brought down the guillotine.No doubt the experience offered him insights into the human fascination with power, as well as the human capacity for pleasure in others’ suffering. Certainly, in just 10 tumultuous days as president of the United States, Trump has demonstrated a streak of gratuitous cruelty.There is no other explanation for such a pointless measure that inflicts so much pain.Here in Britain a petition started this weekend against a planned State visit later this year by Trump has already gained some 1.5 million signatures. The government of Prime Minister Theresa May, desperate for Trump’s favor to offset its Brexit travails, has had to scramble to reassure British dual nationals who may have an Iraqi passport, for example, that they can enter the United States.Sir Mo Farah, the British Olympic gold medalist who was born in Somalia, and whose family lives in the United States, wrote: “On 1st January this year, her majesty the Queen made me a knight of the realm. On 27th January, President Donald Trump seems to have made me an alien.”The measure has given many this feeling they no longer belong. Sanam Naraghi-Anderlini has British and Iranian passports, holds a green card, has an American husband and two American children, and works in Washington as executive director of the International Civil Society Action Network. She told me she’s unsure if she should travel to Germany in a few days on business.“It’s just insane,” she told me. “May talks about Churchill, but it feels like she’s appeasing Trump.”Trump does not retreat. He does not admit mistakes. That is not his style. This month, in tweets, he has written, “Are we living in Nazi Germany?” and he has accused two prominent and dissenting Republican senators of “always looking to start World War III.”Impetuosity allied to cruelty combined with immense power equals trouble. The current storm would cause a normal man who’s a neophyte in a big job to reflect on other approaches. But is anything about Trump normal?
The United States can best achieve its objective of denying international terrorists sanctuary in Afghanistan by implementing an integrated diplomatic and military strategy.The immediate goal is to defend the country’s government and strategic assets. In the medium run, we need to continue trying to stabilize that country’s shaky political order and keeping its state and security forces trained and funded. Over the long term, the United States would have to support efforts to build a more self-sufficient economy linked to Afghanistan’s neighbors.A political settlement, not just with the Taliban but also with Pakistan and other regional states, is essential for moving beyond the medium term. Reaching a settlement would require the United States to keep an open-ended troop presence as its main bargaining chip, while demonstrating willingness to discuss and negotiate a timetable for complete troop withdrawal with Afghanistan, its neighbors and the Taliban.Some Americans and Afghans, looking only at the short run, hope President Trump will strengthen the position of the United States and the Afghan government against the Taliban. Mr. Trump discussed sending more troops in a December telephone call with President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan, The Wall Street Journal reported. He may exert stronger pressure on Pakistan to stop harboring the Afghan Taliban and employ tougher military measures against the Taliban in Afghanistan, though there is no basis for believing that either of those measures would work better than they have for the past 15 years.Hopes that Mr. Trump would sustain such fruitless measures fly in the face of his own words. In October 2015 he told Chris Cuomo of CNN that Afghanistan was a “mess” and that “we made a terrible mistake getting involved there.” Mr. Trump added that he “would leave the troops there, begrudgingly.”The United States has 8,400 troops in Afghanistan and finances the Afghan security forces and the rest of the state at a cost estimated to be around $4 billion a year. The Trump administration is unlikely to sustain that level of spending, since it is reportedly considering how to cut federal spending by $10.5 trillion over 10 years.Stabilizing Afghanistan with less United States assistance would require an end to Pakistan’s harboring the Taliban and a political settlement in Afghanistan. But geographic and geopolitical factors limit how much the United States can pressure Pakistan. The United States needs Pakistan for access to landlocked Afghanistan. In 2011, after several incidents, Pakistan closed United States ground transit. Access through Iran is impossible. In 2011 Russia allowed supplies to transit to Afghanistan from the north. Today, it would either refuse or exact a heavy price, probably in Europe. Is Afghanistan more important than NATO?Efforts to change Islamabad’s behavior work best in cooperation with its “all-weather friend,” China. Senior officials in Beijing told me last December that China’s cooperation with the United States in Afghanistan would continue regardless of differences over the South China Sea, North Korea or trade. Challenging the “One China” policy, as Mr. Trump has started to do, would end all United States-China cooperation, including on Afghanistan.The administration’s counterterrorism policy would make a political settlement impossible, which is probably fine with Mr. Trump. A peace process requires differentiating the Taliban from global jihadists, integrating the former so as to isolate the latter. The leaked draft of an executive order to revive torture and re-establish black sites, however, referred to “a global armed conflict with ISIS, Al Qaeda, the Taliban and other associated international Islamist terrorist groups,” and made no distinction among them.Any effort presupposes a United States presence, however begrudging, in Afghanistan. Anti-Taliban Afghans have seen the United States as a protector rather than occupier, but will their welcome survive an American president who believes “Islam hates us” and bars Muslim refugees from our shores?In March 2011, when Terry Jones, a Florida pastor, burned copies of the Quran, demonstrators in Mazar-i-Sharif killed seven United Nations employees. In February 2012, American guards at the Bagram detention center burned “extremist publications” that turned out to be copies of the Quran and religious tracts. Two thousand demonstrators gathered outside Bagram, demanding the departure of United States troops. Over the coming weeks, Afghan soldiers killed at least six American soldiers in apparent retaliation.The United States could quickly wear out its welcome as the Trump administration bars Muslim refugees. Any moves to send new prisoners to Guantánamo, torture detainees, inflict more civilian casualties, bar Afghans from entering the United States, tolerate or encourage the persecution of Muslims in the United States, or move the embassy in Israel to Jerusalem will hurt American ability to work in Afghanistan.Expanding the economy requires cooperation with neighbors to connect Afghanistan to markets. Regional states have started infrastructure projects that could do so. China’s Belt and Road Initiative will link western China to the Middle East, Europe, Central Asia and South Asia. It includes the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (C.P.E.C.) from Xinjiang to the Gwadar port on Pakistan’s Arabian Sea shore. Crises in United States-China or United States-Pakistan relations would make Afghan integration with C.P.E.C. even harder than it is now.Afghanistan has an alternative to C.P.E.C. Iran and India are developing the Iranian port of Chabahar and connecting it to Afghanistan’s main highway. The three countries signed a transit agreement last May. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, concerned about the Chinese presence in the Indian Ocean, visited New Delhi in January to confirm Japanese participation. On Jan. 28, thanks to the relaxation of sanctions after the nuclear agreement, Iran announced contracts for $3.2 billion in direct investment in projects on the coast around Chabahar. President Trump could cooperate with India and Japan, but additional sanctions on Tehran could hinder investment in Chabahar and inhibit implementation of the transit agreement.If America is first on Mr. Trump’s list of priorities, the “mess” in Afghanistan seems to be pretty far down. Afghanistan’s future will depend on the United States as much as it will on China, India, Russia, Iran and Pakistan. The United States could help shape regional arrangements that would do more to stabilize Afghanistan and stop terrorism than a thousand drone strikes, but not if we view our presence solely as part of a global war on Islamist terrorism and make it impossible to engage Afghanistan’s neighbors.
TORONTO — On Sunday night, a gunman opened fire in a mosque in Quebec City, killing six people and wounding eight. Our prime minister, Justin Trudeau, called the shootings a “terrorist attack on Muslims.”Worshipers gunned down in a mosque — people here more readily associate such news with the United States than with Canada. That this happened in Quebec City has shocked many of us, myself included.An incurably optimistic Canadian, I long believed that Canada would be immune to anti-Muslim hysteria. I was mistaken. This attack has been a long time coming.The first inkling came after Sept. 11. Until then, I was just another Canadian journalist. After that, I was seen only as a Muslim, my identity reduced to my religion. The confusion, or deliberate conflation, of terrorist extremists with ordinary, law-abiding Muslims meant laying a collective guilt on all Muslims.“What do you, Siddiqui, have to say about this or that horrible act of terrorism?” It was as if I were personally responsible.Soon, mosques were being firebombed or vandalized. Women wearing head scarfs were spat upon, pushed and kicked in public places. Muslim Canadians reported feeling psychologically interned, as if under suspicion, surveillance and siege.This was all rather new. Historically, Canadians prided themselves in being different from what they saw in the United States, especially on guns and racism. On Islamophobia, though, we’re ahead of Trumpism, in rhetoric and policy.Long before Donald J. Trump and some Republicans began demonizing Muslims and “radical Islam,” the government of Mr. Trudeau’s predecessor as prime minister, Stephen Harper, was maligning Islam and discriminating against Muslims. So were the governments of our two largest provinces, Ontario and Quebec, in varying degrees.Mr. Harper, first elected in 2006, waged cultural warfare on Muslims and used every opportunity to tie terrorism to Muslims. The Harper government banned the niqab, the veil worn by some Muslim women, from citizenship ceremonies and systematically cold-shouldered mainstream Muslim organizations. In 2011, he said that the biggest threat to Canada was “Islamicism.”In 2015, he suggested that mosques were incubating radicals. He constantly claimed that the West was fighting not just the Islamic State, but was at war also with “the international jihadist movement.” He intervened to slow the admission of refugees from Syria, saying some were potential terrorists, and prioritized Christian asylum seekers from Syria and Iraq. Sound familiar?In the early 2000s, well before American states approved legislative or administrative measures banning the Shariah law that was not coming and could not possibly come to America, Ontario had its own Shariah hysteria. When a small group of Muslims sought permission to use religious arbitration in business disputes and such family matters as divorce and marital assets — to duplicate what churches and rabbinical courts had long been doing — there was a public furor. The state’s premier, Dalton McGuinty, a Liberal, was finally forced to ban the practice for all faith groups.In Quebec, Islamophobia manifested itself in a series of sensational cases, in 2007 and 2008, over the “reasonable accommodation” of religious minorities, Muslims in particular. The provincial soccer federation barred hijab-wearing girls on the pretext of safety. It took an official commission to calm public nerves. Its 2008 report, which had the eminent philosopher Charles Taylor as an author, found there was no crisis: Sensationalist media coverage had distorted perceptions, but Muslims were not making unreasonable demands.Even so, in 2010, Quebec’s premier, Jean Charest, went ahead with a ban on the niqab for government employees and for anyone receiving a public service, including health care. The Muslim-bashing continued in 2012 with the election of the separatist Parti Québécois, which the following year proposed a ban on all religious attire and symbols, such as the kipa, hijab and the Sikh turban, from the public sector. The chief target was Muslims, as the government made abundantly clear in proposing to fire hijab-wearing women from government employment, including in day-care centers, schools and hospitals.But, this being Canada, we took comfort in the fact that the Parti Québécois government was rejected at the polls in 2014, precisely because of its reactionary identity politics, and that the Harperites were trounced in the federal election of November 2015. Canadians had finally decided that Mr. Harper had crossed a red line with his Muslim-baiting. In that election, Muslim voter turnout was a record 79 percent, compared with the overall turnout of 68 percent.In his victory speech, Prime Minister Trudeau spoke of meeting a worried hijabi woman during the campaign and he assured the nation that “a Canadian is a Canadian is a Canadian.” Mr. Trudeau reversed Mr. Harper’s policy on Syrian refugees and welcomed more than 35,000 refugees during his first year in government. Today, hardly a week goes by without my hearing about a neighbor or friend, or a church, synagogue or community group, going to the airport to welcome their Syrian family.I remain an incurably optimistic Canadian, and I want to believe that Canada is still not the United States. But as Sunday’s attack showed, we face the challenge of undoing the damage of years of suspicion and bigotry.
Donald Trump is an ahistorical man. He knows nothing of European history and cares less, as his cavalier trashing of the alliance and union that ushered the Continent from its darkest hours demonstrates.He knows little enough of American history to have chosen as his rallying cry “America First,” a slogan with a past clouded by allies-be-damned isolationism at the start of World War II. (Or perhaps that’s why he embraced it.)The president does not even know the history of the C.I.A., as his self-regarding speech before the hallowed Memorial Wall showed. This was desecration of patriotic sacrifice through advanced narcissistic disorder.He called the speech a “home run.”Great. Terrific. Phenomenal. Tremendous. Fabulous. Beautiful. How Trump has hollowed out these words. How arid, even nauseating, he has made them. They mean nothing. They are space-fillers issuing with a thudding regularity from his uncurious mind, and in the end of course they are all about him. Emptying words of meaning is an essential step on the road to autocratic rule. People need to lose their bearings before they prostrate themselves.From Trump’s White House there now seeps a kind of ignorance mixed with vulgarity and topped with meanness that I find impossible to wash from my skin. I wake up to its oleaginous texture.This is worse than had seemed possible: Trump’s inexhaustible obsession with the crowd size at the inauguration; his constant untruths; his perverse inability to accept that he won the election, to the point that he wants to investigate the popular vote that he lost; his startling lust for torture, walls, banishment and carnage.“The world is a total mess,” he told David Muir of ABC. Funny, I travel the world and that was not my impression a week ago.The president does not like Muslims. That, too, is clear. It was obvious when he called during the campaign for a temporary ban on Muslims entering the United States. It was obvious when he showed contempt for the parents of a fallen Muslim American soldier killed in Iraq. It is obvious now as he attempts to justify a planned suspension of visas for Syrians, Iranians, Iraqis and citizens of four other majority Muslim Middle Eastern and African countries, as well as a temporary ban on almost all refugees.A rough translation of “America First” is Muslims last. “It’s not the Muslim ban,” Trump insisted to Muir. No. It’s just a ban on lots of Muslims.Trump said, in the ABC interview, that the people to be barred “are going to come in and cause us tremendous problems.” He declared: “They’re ISIS.”There is no credible evidence for this wild claim, a smear on entire populations. (Saudi Arabia, the source of most 9/11 terrorists, is unsurprisingly not on the list.)In their overwhelming majority refugees are fleeing violence in their homelands, not plotting it against the United States. They do not put their little children in dinghies on the high seas because they have a choice but because they have no choice.Screening to get into the United States is already rigorous, one reason only a tiny fraction of some 5 million Syrian refugees have come here.A Cato Institute study of refugees admitted to the United States between 1975 and 2015 found that the chance of an American being killed in a terrorist attack committed by a refugee is 1 in 3.64 billion.This is policy fed by anger and prejudice, not reason. The wall announcement has already provoked a damaging clash with Mexico. The proposed visa and refugee measures are not about keeping America safe. They are conceived to nurture an atmosphere of nationalist xenophobia.Trump has been right to call jihadi Islamist terrorism by its name. But conflating a religion of 1.6 billion people with it is no way to fight it. As for his promise of safe areas within Syria, we will see.I am lucky enough to live in Brooklyn Heights with a view out over the East River to lower Manhattan and the Statue of Liberty. So while watching President Donald Trump’s dark inaugural speech a week ago I was able at the same time to glance out at the torch that symbolizes American openness and generosity of spirit.As Trump’s “AMERICA FIRST,” “AMERICA FIRST” echoed across my living room I thought of Emma Lazarus’ words inscribed on the pedestal of the statue:“Give me your tired, your poor,Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free,The wretched refuse of your teeming shore.”Friedrich Trump, a penniless German immigrant, was one of those “huddled masses” back in 1885. Lucky he did not attempt to enter the America taking shape under his grandson.Over time, but not without struggle, I believe the torch will prove stronger than Trump’s fear-filled jingoistic darkness. With the stranger comes renewal. America cannot be itself without it, and Americans will fight for their idea. It is, after all, how they became who they are.
To the Editor:Re “ ‘We the People’ Demand the Tax Returns” (editorial, Jan. 25):I hope members of the left soon develop the ability to recognize Trump administration-flung chum when they see it. By refusing to release the president’s tax returns (using an audit as an excuse), the White House both avoids an action it does not want to take and incenses the left over a potentially inconsequential issue.Even in a worst-case scenario (extensive foreign financial conflicts of interest), the tax returns will not deliver the Democrats a silver bullet to rid the country of Mr. Trump. The more the left lashes out over tax returns, the less energy it can devote to opposing the White House’s grossly incompetent appointees and harmful legislation.At this point, release of the tax returns would be a vengeance victory at best and toothless evidence at worst. They will not make Trumpism go away. That task will take hard (and often boring) political legwork.JENNIFER SHEANew YorkTo the Editor:It is unlikely that Congress will pass a law demanding that future presidential candidates submit their tax returns, so state legislatures should fill the void. The possibility of a major candidate’s name not appearing on the ballot in a state would be a powerful motivator toward ensuring the financial transparency of candidates for president.JOSHUA JACOBSNew YorkTo the Editor:Let’s not be fooled by President Trump yet again reversing himself and saying he will indeed disclose his tax returns after the pending I.R.S. audit.The I.R.S. requires that a mandatory review be performed each year of the president’s tax returns. So as long as he is president Mr. Trump can claim the pending audit excuse he used during the campaign.JAHAN BYRNEBerkeley, Calif.
MIAMI — President Trump is scheduled this evening to announce his nominee for the Supreme Court seat vacated by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia. Many conservatives argue that a jurist who replicates Justice Scalia’s approach to law should fill the vacancy. Mr. Trump appears to agree, vowing to nominate federal judges “in the mold of Justice Scalia.” While Justice Scalia was a brilliant and ardent defender of conservatism, achieving a restoration of the original meaning of the Constitution — particularly its separation of powers — could be more quickly and effectively achieved by a nominee whose approach is more aligned with that of Justice Clarence Thomas.The demeanors of the two justices could not have been more divergent. Justice Scalia was a firebrand known for opinions that were eloquent but often acerbic. Justice Thomas’s quieter disposition — he rarely asks questions at oral arguments — camouflages an equally deep and tenacious intellect.What matters most, however, is not a justice’s demeanor but his judicial philosophy. On this score, Justice Thomas’s originalism is unflinching. In Gonzales v. Raich (2005), for example, a majority of the court held that state medical marijuana laws are pre-empted because the federal Controlled Substances Act is a valid exercise of Congress’s power to regulate interstate commerce. Justice Thomas dissented, asserting that if Congress can regulate individuals’ ability to grow, possess or use marijuana for personal medicinal use, “it can regulate virtually anything,” and states will be left with little power.Justice Scalia concurred with the Gonzales majority. Because the Controlled Substances Act broadly regulated interstate commerce in illicit drugs, Justice Scalia reasoned, states could not exempt medical marijuana patients whose noncommercial activities — such as growing, possessing and using marijuana — never crossed state lines.Justice Thomas countered that the constitutional principle of federalism, whereby power is divided between the federal government and the states, allows states to adopt health and safety laws tailored to the needs and desires of their citizens, provided citizens’ activities are not commercial in nature and do not cross state lines.Justice Thomas’s narrower construction of the Commerce Clause is more aligned with its original meaning. His view, if ever accepted by a majority of the court, would curb federal power, creating more room not only for state experimentation on issues, but also for individual liberty. As Justice Thomas’s dissent in the gay marriage decision, Obergefell v. Hodges (2015), put it: “Since well before 1787, liberty has been understood as freedom from government action, not entitlement to government benefits. The framers created our Constitution to preserve that understanding of liberty.”Another important aspect of Justice Thomas’s brand of conservatism is his rejection of “Chevron deference.” In Chevron v. National Resources Defense Council (1984), the Supreme Court held that when a statute is ambiguous, courts must defer to an administrative agency’s interpretation of the statute. Chevron deference has aggrandized executive power, giving agencies considerable leeway to promulgate regulations on controversial subjects not addressed by Congress and coming dangerously close to encroaching on legislative power.Justice Scalia was an ardent defender of Chevron deference, but Justice Thomas is not. For example, in City of Arlington v. Federal Communications Commission (2013), Justice Scalia wrote a majority opinion that doubled down on Chevron by rejecting the invitation to create a “jurisdictional” exception that many conservatives desired.Justice Scalia’s opinions immediately before his death suggested that he may have been reconsidering his unwavering defense of Chevron deference. For example, in Michigan v. Environmental Protection Agency (2015), Justice Scalia wrote a majority opinion that affirmed the applicability of Chevron deference, yet simultaneously concluded that an Environmental Protection Agency rule was irrational and undeserving of deference. Justice Thomas concurred separately, asserting more boldly that Chevron deference was a usurpation of judges’ constitutional power to interpret federal laws and “say what the law is” — a power acknowledged to belong to the judiciary since Marbury v. Madison (1803).In his concurring opinion in Michigan v. E.P.A., Justice Thomas observed, “We seem to be straying further and further from the Constitution without so much as pausing to ask why.” Justice Thomas is right. At a time when the Constitution’s separation of powers is eroding at breathtaking velocity, his fearlessness in defying unconstitutional actions is needed now more than ever.In Federalist No. 78, Alexander Hamilton wrote that federal judges must possess more than just legal knowledge, they must have the courage to defy popular passions. “It is easy to see,” he said, “that it would require an uncommon portion of fortitude in the judges to do their duty as faithful guardians of the Constitution, where legislative invasions of it had been instigated by the major voice of the community.”President Trump should heed Hamilton’s advice and nominate a jurist with the same degree of fortitude and devotion to the Constitution’s original meaning that has been exhibited by Justice Thomas.
To the Editor:Re “Agencies Told to Halt Communications” (news article, Jan. 26):In light of public communications restrictions placed on federal agencies by the Trump administration, including the Environmental Protection Agency gag order, the Society of Environmental Journalists strongly urges the federal government to commit itself to transparency and to provide verifiable, factual information to all Americans, including journalists.Any public information lockdown is an affront to both the spirit of the Freedom of Information Act and the public trust. The public is entitled to accurate information about polluters and how the government is enforcing environmental laws. Americans rely on journalists to bring them this information, so it is important that journalists have access to federal agency officials, government scientists and scientific data.We reject the E.P.A. gag order. Our members will continue to reach out to federal agencies and hope that the Trump administration will commit itself to an open line of communication with both journalists and the public.BOBBY MAGILLPresidentSociety of Environmental JournalistsNew York
The TV cameras were rolling when Nikita Mikhalkov visited the Boris Yeltsin Presidential Center in Yekaterinburg, Russia, on Dec. 17. The center’s officials were ready; they knew this day was coming.Head of the Russian cinematographers’ union, Mr. Mikhalkov is a well-known actor and director and a powerful figure in the world of Russian culture. His father was a prominent Communist writer and the author of the lyrics to the Soviet national anthem, and his mother the descendant of the great painter Vasily Surikov. Mr. Mikhalkov’s older brother, Andrei Konchalovsky, is also a filmmaker, whose works include big Hollywood productions such as “Tango & Cash.”For years Mr. Mikhalkov has made no secret of his nationalist views and his support for President Vladimir V. Putin, a personal friend: He was a co-writer on an open letter in 2007 pleading with Mr. Putin to remain in office for a third term, in direct contradiction of the Constitution. The following year he told an audience in Serbia that they were witnessing a “war against Orthodoxy” and that their brand of Christian faith was the only power strong enough to withstand the noxious tide of “cultural and intellectual McDonald’s” sweeping the globe. When one dissenting listener dared shout, “What’s better, McDonald’s or Stalinism?” Mr. Mikhalkov retorted, “That’s up to the individual.”Mr. Mikhalkov airs his political ideas on “Besogon TV” (“The Exorcist TV”), a video blog masquerading as a television show. In a measured tone, he offers his viewers lessons on the age-old perfidy of the West toward Russia. This is history with an enormous chip on its shoulder. To listen is to become convinced that Europe and the United States exist solely to torment Russia and plot its ruination.His image of Russia is that of a besieged fortress under constant threat of attack, a notion that has been nakedly cultivated by the Putin regime in recent years. Russia is a “velikaya strana,” a great country, he keeps reminding his audience, a fact the world forgets at its peril. On a visit to Moscow last spring I saw cars with bumper stickers proclaiming “To Berlin!” and “We can do it again!,” crude allusions to World War II. Some Russians, it seems, are ready to repeat it, and this is the sentiment Mr. Mikhalkov encourages.Among the demons singled out for exorcism by Mr. Mikhalkov in recent months has been the Yeltsin Center, in Russia’s fourth-largest city, just east of the Ural Mountains. An enormous complex with a museum, archive, library and exhibition halls, the center, which opened in November 2015, is dedicated to promoting “the institution of the Russian presidency and the development of civil society, democratic institutions and the rule of law,” according to its website.To Mr. Mikhalkov, the Yeltsin Center reeks of betrayal to Russia’s political traditions and a wholesale capitulation to the West. His attacks on the center have focused on a short animated film of Russian history that he claims reduces its glorious past to nothing but a series of bloody tyrants and unending misery.At a committee meeting of the Federation Council, the upper house of the Russian Parliament, on Dec. 9, Mr. Mikhalkov demanded the government take action by shutting down the center or at least forcing it to change its educational offerings to reflect his nationalist agenda. He insisted that the center was carrying out a “destructive program” that was injecting the minds of the country’s children with “poison” and ruining their sense of Russian identity. It was a matter of “national security,” he said, for by destroying young Russians’ native pride the center was promoting “the collapse of the country.” This, he warned, is “the dream of the world community.”He does not mean this metaphorically. He — and many others — truly believe the West has designs on Russian territory. In 2005, he told the Russian press that the former secretary of state Madeleine Albright had called it unfair that the material riches of Siberia should belong to only one country, a statement proven to be bogus.When Mr. Mikhalkov visited the center for the first time, its employees welcomed him, looking forward to the opportunity to change his mind about their activities, but he showed scant interest in touring the museum, stopping at the short film that had been the cause of his initial dismay and asking how they could justify showing such anti-Russian propaganda.If Mr. Mikhalkov’s crusade against the Yeltsin Center were an isolated affair it would not be cause for serious concern, but the attack is part of a broader campaign to curb the activities of institutions deemed antithetical to the regime and to silence dissent. In the past two years, Russia has stepped up enforcement of the so-called foreign agent law directed at nongovernmental organizations that receive foreign aid and engage in political activity (broadly defined), forcing either the closing or scaling back of many vital civic organizations, including the Levada Center, an independent polling agency, and Memorial, dedicated to chronicling the atrocities of the Soviet past and monitoring human rights in Russia.Amid this shrinking landscape for open, honest debate and study, the Yeltsin Center, with its rich program of lectures, exhibitions, screenings and discussions, has taken on great importance in the country’s civic life. It would be a serious loss if it was forced to retreat from its mission in order to placate the authoritarian voices of Russian nationalism.So far, however, it appears Mr. Mikhalkov has failed to convince higher authorities of the need to act. When asked at his annual news conference about Mr. Mikhalkov’s campaign, Mr. Putin refused to side with his friend. Russia, he said, has always had Slavophiles and Westernizers, and now, on the eve of the centenary of the revolutions of 1917, it was time for Russians to strive “for reconciliation” and to reject “the incitement of passions.” The Yeltsin Center has been shown mercy. For now.
To the Editor:Re “Trump Fires Justice Chief Who Defied Him” (front page, Jan. 31):Bravo to the acting attorney general, Sally Yates, and to those diplomats and career Civil Service employees who have taken a principled stand against President Trump’s ill-conceived, counterproductive and possibly unconstitutional immigration ban.One can imagine that if there had been this howl of dissent from senior officials against F.D.R.’s executive order interning law-abiding Japanese-American citizens and their families during World War II, we might have avoided that black mark on our country’s claim to be a “beacon of liberty.”DENNIS LEADERNovato, Calif.To the Editor:I had some shopping to do this afternoon in my neighborhood. I bought light bulbs from the Pakistani immigrant who owns the hardware store; a mailer envelope from the Indian immigrant who owns the copy store; bagels from the Korean immigrant who owns the bagel store; strawberries from the Salvadoran immigrant who works in the grocery store; and postage from the Iranian immigrant who works at the post office.The white Christian nativism of the current America First crowd is no different from the bigotry that the previous America Firsters incited to castigate my immigrant ancestors — who were Jews — as well as Italians, Irish, Poles, Greeks, Armenians, etc.Those people immigrated here for the same reasons the recent immigrants did, not because it was easy but because the United States represented something special. Of all the toxicity the Trump administration will dump on the world, nothing will compare with its poisoning of the American ideal of immigration.JON REINERNew YorkTo the Editor:Re “Flip Side of Outrage: Some See a Promise Kept” (front page, Jan. 31):I was struck by the inherent illogic expressed by Trump supporters who say they feel safer because of President Trump’s ban on entry to the United States by Muslims from selected countries.Since 9/11, no one has been killed in the United States in a terrorist attack by a Muslim from these countries. In contrast, hundreds of mass shootings in the last 16 years have been committed by native-born citizens using automatic weapons: Orlando, Charleston, Newtown, Aurora, just to name a few.Since we cannot ban native-born citizens, it seems that the logical thing to do to make everyone feel safer is to ban automatic weapons.JACK HADLEYArlington, Va.To the Editor:I commend The Times for publishing a front-page article in which your reporter reached out to obtain the views of citizens in Staten Island, Wisconsin, even Seattle, who support President Trump’s new immigration policy.Widening the circle of political views reported on your news pages to include those who want a new direction in American policy on immigration and protection from terrorists is exactly what was largely missing during your coverage of the campaign and why you missed the electoral earthquake about to hit.Despite all the noise, all the outrage expressed in the news media and all the protests, a majority of American states voted for Mr. Trump to do exactly what he is now doing — limiting immigration from terror-torn nations to protect the homeland.DENNIS L. BREONew Smyrna Beach, Fla.To the Editor:Recent polls and anecdotal accounts demonstrate that President Trump’s ban on migrants enjoys widespread popular support. Defenders of the president cite that to support the draconian order. But our country’s core policy decisions should not be justified by the expedience of opinion polling, as if governing America is no different from picking winners on “American Idol” or “The Voice.”GEORGE KOVACMiami
NORMALLY at the end of a new administration’s tumultuous first week, it’s the pundit’s job to sit back and chin-stroke and explain everything that the president and his aides are doing right or wrong.In the Donald Trump era, though, there’s a distinctive problem: Before he can be defended or criticized, we have to figure out what’s actually happening. And for several reasons, that’s going to be harder in this presidency than ever before.First: This is clearly going to be an administration with multiple centers of gravity, with more fractiousness and freelancing than in the relatively-tight ships that Barack Obama and George W. Bush ran. The Trump White House has a weak chief of staff surrounded by rivalrous advisers. The Trump cabinet is not necessarily on the same ideological page as the president’s inner circle. Trump himself is famous for agreeing with the last person who bent his ear. So there is no trustworthy voice providing public clarity — least of all poor Sean Spicer — in cases where multiple balls and trial balloons are airborne.Second: The establishment press, as I warned last week, is being pressured to lead the resistance to Trumpism, which makes it more likely to run with the most shocking interpretations (muzzled bureaucrats! mass resignations!) of whatever the White House happens to be doing. At the same time, the Trump inner circle clearly intends to lean into this phenomenon, to encourage the press-as-opposition narrative, seeing mainstream-media mistakes as a way of shoring up its own base’s loyalty. And then the technological forces shaping media coverage also encourage errors and overreach — a dubious story or even a misleading live-tweet of a press conference can go around the online world long before the more prosaic truth has reached your Facebook feed. (A self-serving suggestion: In such a climate, the discerning citizen may come to appreciate anew the tortoise-like pace of print journalism.)Third: Trumpism is an ideological cocktail that doesn’t fit the patterns we’re used to in American politics, and Trump has arrayed himself against bipartisan habits of mind on all sorts of issues. This means, as The Week columnist Damon Linker notes perceptively, that he’s guaranteed to do things that seem “abnormal” and that take both the press corps and D.C. mandarins aback —– like, say, actually enforcing already on-the-books immigration laws. The trick for the public will be figuring where what’s “abnormal” is obviously “alarming” and where it makes more sense to wait and see. Which will be hard for reasons one and two, and also because …… Trump himself is a loose cannon whose public interventions tend to make his own policies harder to interpret. Is his administration planning a trade war with Mexico, as his tweets suggest, or just pushing a wonky border-adjustment tax that’s been part of G.O.P. proposals for a while? Are we actually considering reviving waterboarding, or is that just an empty executive order left over from the Romney transition that James Mattis and Mike Pompeo have no intention of operationalizing? Is the administration about to embark on a racially-coded war against phantom voter fraud based on random anecdotes and conspiracy theories … or is this just a “Twitter promise,” not a real one?Of course time will bring a certain clarity. We’ll find out whether Trump’s refugee and visa freezes from Muslim countries are actually temporary, a means to stricter screening, or whether they become permanent. We’ll move from speculation to reality on Russia policy. We’ll find out how far the president intends to run with the voter-fraud nonsense. We’ll see how often his angry tweets and behind-the-scenes obsessions cash out, and how often they’re just a way of venting.But if the fog lifts in some cases, it’s likely to chronically shroud the policy-making process on issues (health care, taxes, infrastructure, more) where Trump needs his congressional allies to have certainty about their shared objectives. And it threatens to descend more dramatically — with Stephen King-style monsters screaming in the mist — with every unexpected event, every unlooked-for crisis, in which what the White House says in real time will matter much more than it does right now.I ended last week’s column with a warning for the press corps, about their potential contribution to a climate of political hysteria. But this column’s warning is for the president and his advisers, some of whom clearly like the fog and seem to imagine that it will help them govern just as it probably helped them win.They shouldn’t be so confident. For legislators, too much fog is paralyzing. For voters, it’s a recipe for nervous exhaustion. For allies, it’s confusing; for enemies, it looks like an opportunity.Trump is not a popular president, he has not actually built an electoral majority, his team is not particularly experienced. If he can’t provide clarity and reassurance and a little light around his agenda, it will be very easy for a fog-bound presidency to simply run aground.
To the Editor:I’ve always thought that the worst job in the world (for me) would be the public relations representative at an airline or hospital right after a disastrous and preventable mistake occurred. I’d hate to be thrust into a position where I felt that I needed to lie in order to protect my employer.Now I’m thinking that the worst job in the world is probably being Donald Trump’s press secretary/communications director.JOHN FINEBERGSt. Paul
What’s normal?Perhaps the answer seems obvious: What’s normal is what’s typical — what is average.But in a recent paper in the journal Cognition, we argue that the situation is more complicated than that. After conducting a series of experiments that examined how people decide whether something is normal or not, we found that when people think about what is normal, they combine their sense of what is typical with their sense of what is ideal.Normal, in other words, turns out to be a blend of statistical and moral notions.Our key finding can be illustrated with a simple example. Ask yourself, “What is the average number of hours of TV that people watch in a day?” Then ask yourself a question that might seem very similar: “What is the normal number of hours of TV for a person to watch in a day?”If you are like most of our experimental participants, you will not give the same answer to the second question that you give to the first. Our participants said the “average” number was about four hours and the “normal” number was about three hours. In addition, they said that the “ideal” number was about 2.5 hours. This has an interesting implication. It suggests that people’s conception of the normal deviates from the average in the direction of what they think ought to be so.Our studies found this same pattern in numerous other cases: the normal grandmother, the normal salad, the normal number of students to be bullied in a middle school. Again and again, our participants did not take the normal to be the same as the average. Instead, what people picked out as the “normal thing to do” or a “normal such-and-such” tended to be intermediate between what they thought was typical and what they thought was ideal.We even made up a story about a fictitious type of tool — a “stagnar” — and provided information about what it was used for and what it typically looked like. Pretty soon, our participants had developed a conception of the normal stagnar that was intermediate between the average stagnar and the ideal stagnar.These results point to something surprising about the way people’s minds work. You might imagine that people have two completely distinct modes of reasoning: On one hand, we can think about how things typically are; on the other, we can think about how things ought to be.But our results suggest that people’s minds cannot be divided up so neatly in this way. People might sometimes be able to separate out the average from the ideal, but they more often make use of a kind of reasoning that blends the two together into a single undifferentiated judgment of normality. This apparently instinctive judgment appears to play an important role in people’s ordinary way of making sense of their lives and the world around them.The consequences can be serious. Our research suggests, for example, that as President Trump continues to do things that once would have been regarded as outlandish, these actions are not simply coming to be regarded as more typical; they are coming to be seen as more normal. As a result, they will come to be seen as less bad and hence less worthy of outrage.Our work thus offers support for those who worry about “normalization”: that things, simply by becoming more common, become more acceptable. (The same holds true for gay marriage, or gender reassignment surgery, or any other controversial institution or practice that becomes more widespread.)Likewise, people’s attitudes toward atypical behavior are frequently colored by this blended conception of normality. When a kid does not have the usual interests or the usual haircut, his peers do not view his behavior simply as atypical or statistically infrequent. They view it as abnormal — as weird or deviant. The result can be ostracism or bullying.There is, fortunately, some good news. However deeply ingrained this cognitive tendency may be, people are not condemned to think this way. You are certainly capable of distinguishing carefully between what is typical and what is good. You are able to understand that something occurs frequently without also thinking that it is morally acceptable, or that something occurs infrequently without thinking that it is weird or deviant.But this type of thinking, which takes some discipline, is no doubt more the exception than the rule. Most often, we do not stop to distinguish the typical from the acceptable, the infrequent from the deviant. Instead, we categorize things in terms of a more basic, undifferentiated notion of normality, which blends together these two importantly different facets of human life.Combating this tendency in ourselves and others is — perhaps now more than ever — something to be vigilant about.
To the Editor:Re “Judge Blocks Trump Order on Refugees” (front page, Jan. 29):Albert Einstein. Elie Wiesel. Madeleine Albright. Sergey Brin. Vladimir Nabokov. Wyclef Jean. These refugees have enriched America through their contributions to science, culture, politics, business and the arts. Every day, refugees and their families make America a better place.On Friday, International Holocaust Remembrance Day, the most powerful country in the world shut its doors to those most in need. Through our cruelty and barbaric ignorance, we condemn innocent people to horror, persecution and, in many cases, certain death. In doing so, we betray our ideals and make America a less safe, less wealthy and less compassionate nation.We rob ourselves not only of their contributions, but also of our own humanity.JASON HOCHMANNew YorkTo the Editor:I may have been born in the United States but this country has become foreign to me. This land is not my land. I no longer share its beliefs, I do not countenance its actions, I do not even recognize its methods.I am not an American, not this America.The country I lived in did not treat human beings with such utter contempt, did not display a depraved indifference to others’ welfare, did not inflict such needless pain and suffering.There are no words that can fully describe my alienation from the unconscionable mandate that now brands millions of people as unworthy of entry upon our shores. The very heart of this nation is being torn out.This is not who I am. This is not who we are. I am a stranger in a foreign land.I am an immigrant.ROBERT NUSSBAUMFort Lee, N.J.To the Editor:Surely I’m not the only person wondering why Donald Trump’s odious immigration ban does not include immigrants from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates or Egypt, the countries that were home to the 9/11 attackers. Why are the citizens of these countries excluded?It seems that Trump Organization business interests may be involved. We have reached the point where Mr. Trump’s conflicts of interest are threatening our national security. It is past time to either divest or release tax returns and other records to remove the appearance of a conflict.NOAM STOPAKWashingtonTo the Editor:Donald Trump has shown many times that he does not have a shred of empathy or compassion. Now he is trying to remake America in his image. Are we, the American people, going to let him do so?SAMUEL M. OFSEVITHartsdale, N.Y.To the Editor:“Ban Prompts Deep Anger, Muted Praise” (front page, Jan. 29), describing President Trump’s order barring certain foreigners, reports that “some relatives of Americans killed in terrorist attacks said it was right on target.” Yet as a family member of a victim of the 9/11 terrorist attack on the World Trade Center — my sister was killed — I am deeply offended.Mr. Trump’s blunt order leaves thousands of innocent civilians stranded and aids terrorists who wish to portray the United States as anti-Muslim. Moreover, 15 of the 19 hijackers on 9/11 were from Saudi Arabia — excluded from Mr. Trump’s list!Over the past 16 years, over 100 times more Americans have been killed or injured by gun violence in the United States than were killed from terrorism, including 9/11.Mr. Trump can make America far safer through other, more thoughtful means, working closely with our Islamic and other allies, and reducing access to firearms.ROBERT KLITZMANNew York
This is a column directed at high school and college students. I’m going to try to convey to you how astoundingly different the Republican Party felt when I was your age.The big guy then was Ronald Reagan. Temperamentally, though not politically, Reagan was heir to the two Roosevelts. He inherited a love of audacity from T.R. and optimism and charm from F.D.R.He had a sunny faith in America’s destiny and in America’s ability to bend global history toward freedom. He had a sunny faith in the free market to deliver prosperity to all. He had a sunny faith in the power of technology to deliver bounty and even protect us from nuclear missiles.He could be very hard on big government or the Soviet Union, but he generally saw the world as a welcoming place; he looked for the good news in others and saw the arc of history bending toward progress.When he erred it was often on the utopian side of things, believing that tax cuts could pay for themselves, believing that he and Mikhail Gorbachev could shed history and eliminate all nuclear weapons.The mood of the party is so different today. Donald Trump expressed the party’s new mood to David Muir of ABC, when asked about his decision to suspend immigration from some Muslim countries: “The world is a mess. The world is as angry as it gets. What, you think this is going to cause a little more anger? The world is an angry place.”Consider the tenor of Trump’s first week in office. It’s all about threat perception. He has made moves to build a wall against the Mexican threat, to build barriers against the Muslim threat, to end a trade deal with Asia to fight the foreign economic threat, to build black site torture chambers against the terrorist threat.Trump is on his political honeymoon, which should be a moment of joy and promise. But he seems to suffer from an angry form of anhedonia, the inability to experience happiness. Instead of savoring the moment, he’s spent the week in a series of nasty squabbles about his ratings and crowd sizes.If Reagan’s dominant emotional note was optimism, Trump’s is fear. If Reagan’s optimism was expansive, Trump’s fear propels him to close in: Pull in from Asian entanglements through rejection of the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Pull in from European entanglements by disparaging NATO. It’s not a cowering, timid fear; it’s more a dark, resentful porcupine fear.We have a word for people who are dominated by fear. We call them cowards. Trump was not a coward in the business or campaign worlds. He could take on enormous debt and had the audacity to appear at televised national debates with no clue what he was talking about. But as president his is a policy of cowardice. On every front, he wants to shrink the country into a shell.J.R.R. Tolkien once wrote, “A man that flies from his fear may find that he has only taken a shortcut to meet it.”Desperate to be liked, Trump adopts a combative attitude that makes him unlikable. Terrified of Mexican criminals, he wants to build a wall that will actually lock in more undocumented aliens than it will keep out. Terrified of Muslim terrorists, he embraces the torture policies guaranteed to mobilize terrorists. Terrified that American business can’t compete with Asian business, he closes off a trade deal that would have boosted annual real incomes in the United States by $131 billion, or 0.5 percent of G.D.P. Terrified of Mexican competition, he considers slapping a 20 percent tariff on Mexican goods, even though U.S. exports to Mexico have increased 97 percent since 2005.Trump has changed the way the Republican Party sees the world. Republicans used to have a basic faith in the dynamism and openness of the free market. Now the party fears openness and competition.In the summer of 2015, according to a Pew Research Center poll, Republicans said free trade deals had been good for the country by 51 to 39 percent. By the summer of 2016, Republicans said those deals had been bad for America by 61 percent to 32 percent.It’s not that the deals had changed, or reality. It was that Donald Trump became the Republican nominee and his dark fearfulness became the party’s dark fearfulness. In this case fear is not a reaction to the world. It is a way of seeing the world. It propels your reactions to the world.As Reagan came to office he faced refugee crises, with suffering families coming in from Cuba, Vietnam and Cambodia. Filled with optimism and confidence, Reagan vowed, “We shall seek new ways to integrate refugees into our society,” and he delivered on that promise.Trump faces a refugee crisis from Syria. And though no Syrian-American has ever committed an act of terrorism on American soil, Trump’s response is fear. Shut them out.Students, the party didn’t used to be this way. A mean wind is blowing.
Many Republican members of Congress have made a Faustian bargain with Donald Trump. They don’t particularly admire him as a man, they don’t trust him as an administrator, they don’t agree with him on major issues, but they respect the grip he has on their voters, they hope he’ll sign their legislation and they certainly don’t want to be seen siding with the inflamed progressives or the hyperventilating media.Their position was at least comprehensible: How many times in a lifetime does your party control all levers of power? When that happens you’re willing to tolerate a little Trumpian circus behavior in order to get things done.But if the last 10 days have made anything clear, it’s this: The Republican Fausts are in an untenable position. The deal they’ve struck with the devil comes at too high a price. It really will cost them their soul.In the first place, the Trump administration is not a Republican administration; it is an ethnic nationalist administration. Trump insulted both parties equally in his Inaugural Address. The Bannonites are utterly crushing the Republican regulars when it comes to actual policy making.The administration has swung sharply antitrade. Trump’s economic instincts are corporatist, not free market. If Barack Obama tried to lead from behind, Trump’s foreign policy involves actively running away from global engagement. Outspoken critics of Paul Ryan are being given White House jobs, and at the same time, if Reince Priebus has a pulse it is not externally evident.Second, even if Trump’s ideology were not noxious, his incompetence is a threat to all around him. To say that it is amateur hour at the White House is to slander amateurs. The recent executive orders were drafted and signed without any normal agency review or even semicoherent legal advice, filled with elemental errors that any nursery school student would have caught.It seems that the Trump administration is less a government than a small clique of bloggers and tweeters who are incommunicado with the people who actually help them get things done. Things will get really hairy when the world’s problems are incoming.Third, it’s becoming increasingly clear that the aroma of bigotry infuses the whole operation, and anybody who aligns too closely will end up sharing in the stench.The administration could have simply tightened up the refugee review process and capped the refugee intake at 50,000, but instead went out of its way to insult Islam. The administration could have simply tightened up immigration procedures, but Trump went out of his way to pick a fight with all of Mexico.Other Republicans have gone far out of their way to make sure the war on terrorism is not a war on Islam or on Arabs, but Trump has gone out of his way to ensure the opposite. The racial club is always there.Fourth, it is hard to think of any administration in recent memory, on any level, whose identity is so tainted by cruelty. The Trump administration is often harsh and never kind. It is quick to inflict suffering on the 8-year-old Syrian girl who’s been bombed and strafed and lost her dad. Its deportation vows mean that in the years ahead, the TV screens will be filled with weeping families being pulled apart.None of these traits will improve with time. As former Bush administration official Eliot Cohen wrote in The Atlantic, “Precisely because the problem is one of temperament and character, it will not get better. It will get worse, as power intoxicates Trump and those around him. It will probably end in calamity — substantial domestic protest and violence, a breakdown of international economic relationships, the collapse of major alliances, or perhaps one or more new wars (even with China) on top of the ones we already have. It will not be surprising in the slightest if his term ends not in four or in eight years, but sooner, with impeachment or removal under the 25th Amendment.”The danger signs are there in profusion. Sooner or later, the Republican Fausts will face a binary choice. As they did under Nixon, Republican leaders will have to either oppose Trump and risk his tweets, or sidle along with him and live with his stain.Trump exceeded expectations with his cabinet picks, but his first 10 days in office have made clear this is not a normal administration. It is a problem that demands a response. It is a callous, bumbling group that demands either personal loyalty or the ax.Already one sees John McCain and Lindsey Graham forming a bit of a Republican opposition. The other honorable senators will have to choose: Collins, Alexander, Portman, Corker, Cotton, Sasse and so on and so on.With most administrations you can agree sometimes and disagree other times. But this one is a danger to the party and the nation in its existential nature. And so sooner or later all will have to choose what side they are on, and live forever after with the choice.
You can take the man out of “The Apprentice,” but you can’t take “The Apprentice” out of the man.President Trump unveiled his nominee for the Supreme Court on Tuesday night, and like so much about his campaign and now his administration, the announcement had some of the unreal aspects of reality TV.There were reports that he had summoned both of the two finalists to Washington: An elimination contest! He had programmed the big reveal for primetime. No slow leak of the news followed by its anti-climactic confirmation. No muted moment in the Rose Garden in the middle of the day.Instead, an orchestrated drumroll and then a television appearance at the same hour — 8 p.m. Eastern — when “The Apprentice” sometimes used to begin. Just like old times, but with “you’re fired” replaced by “you’re hired” (pending Senate confirmation).The pick was Neil Gorsuch, a federal appeals court judge in Denver who has the blessing of conservatives and a resume of extraordinary accomplishment. When he stepped to the microphone, he showed none of Trump’s proud irreverence, none of Trump’s self-conscious flashiness.He projected a quality that doesn’t exist in Trump’s wheelhouse — modesty — by saying that he was “acutely aware of my own imperfections” and noting that a “judge who likes every outcome he reaches is very likely a bad judge.”“I am humbled,” he said, using an adjective without much currency in Trump’s vocabulary.Now comes a partisan fight, made all the more heated by Republicans’ sustained, steadfast refusal to hold hearings on President Obama’s nomination of Merrick Garland last year and by Democrats’ horror over so much of what the Trump administration has done so far.While Gorsuch isn’t as divisive a choice as others Trump might have made, that may not matter. The relationship between Trump and Democrats is deteriorating so far so fast that every battle could wind up being an all-out war.Still, Democrats have an interesting decision here. By some reckonings, Gorsuch is the conventional, milquetoast option that Trump is exercising before he indulges a wilder streak and goes for someone more provocative if another vacancy opens up. Should they save their most withering fire for that?Or for Trump’s many outrages beyond the Supreme Court? If you can only stop him on a few fronts, which should they be?The climate and the context of the Gorsuch nomination are especially fascinating, and I don’t just mean the Democrats’ strategic considerations. I don’t just mean the pageant-style identification of two finalists, as if Trump were still in his Miss Universe days. I mean the chaos in which it’s occurring.In almost any other administration, on almost any other day, the imminent announcement of a Supreme Court nominee would have utterly monopolized the news. But not on Tuesday, when Democrats were boycotting the confirmation hearings of cabinet nominees and there was a revolt in the State Department and the acting attorney general had just been fired and on and on and on. What we have right now isn’t so much a government as a pinball machine — all clanging and pinging and bells and whistles.At least Trump walked up to the lectern to announce Gorsuch punctually, and at least he ceded the microphone promptly to his nominee. (For a clumsier rendition of this sort of thing, I refer you to Trump’s endless monologue when he formally named Mike Pence as his running mate.)Still, Trump will be Trump.“This may be the most transparent judicial selection process in history,” he said, praising himself for providing a list of candidates during his campaign and then sticking with one of the people on it. “I am a man of my word.” Actually, he’s a man of many words, the bevy of them self-congratulatory.I just wonder what happened to Thomas Hardiman, the runner-up judge, and why he was passed over in the end. Did he lose the swimsuit competition? Does he get a consolation prize?
It took George W. Bush only a few days after the Supreme Court ended the Florida recount and made him president in 2000 to sum up the essential challenge of being in charge of a democratic government: People have a pesky habit of questioning orders.“If this were a dictatorship, it’d be a heck of a lot easier,” Bush said on Dec. 18, 2000, after Democrats in Congress told him they expected at least some effort at compromise. “Just so long,” he added, “as I am the dictator.”Bush was not entirely joking, as the country later discovered when he began ordering things like warrantless wiretapping, illegal detentions, torture and the invasion of Iraq — and seeking to silence or get rid of anyone who stood in his way.In March 2004, the Bush White House tried to compel a hospitalized and barely conscious Attorney General John Ashcroft to overrule his own lawyers and declare the Bush wiretapping program legal. Led by Vice President Dick Cheney, the Bush team packed the Justice Department with ideologues who were willing to invent justifications for the use of torture. And in December 2006, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales fired seven United States attorneys who refused to block investigations of Republican officeholders or prosecute phony voter fraud cases.Now comes President Trump, who in the last few days issued a clearly illegal order to screen refugees and immigrants based on their religion (Islam, of course), fired the acting attorney general for saying she would not defend the order against court challenges and told career diplomats who objected to the ban to remain silent.We have all seen what can happen when you quash dissent on matters of national security — you end up with falsified intelligence reports that mislead the nation into a foolishly planned and ineptly conducted invasion of Iraq.Trump had the power to fire the acting attorney general, Sally Yates, who had stayed on at Trump’s request to run the Justice Department until a permanent attorney general could be confirmed. She refused to instruct her staff to defend Trump’s immigration ban in court, which was an act of open defiance — sort of like the attorney general and his deputy refusing to obey Richard Nixon’s order to fire the Watergate special prosecutor in 1973.Perhaps Yates should have resigned, as those two Nixon appointees did, rather than publicly defying the president and presumably waiting to be fired. But the result is the same. Trump found someone, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia, Dana J. Boente, willing to defend the immigration ban in exchange for being named acting attorney general.In Washington, you can always find someone willing to play along, as Solicitor General Robert Bork obligingly did for Nixon in 1973. But the result is a serious erosion of the integrity of government — a price that comes especially high when we are talking about the Justice Department, which is supposed to place the Constitution and the law above partisan politics.Even before Trump fired Yates over the visa ban, his White House was busily trying to silence those in the government who were as appalled by his order as most of the rest of the world was.More than 100 career diplomats were prepared to sign a document indicating their strong opposition to the move against Muslim immigrants and refugees. The memorandum was being circulated through a State Department channel created during the Vietnam War specifically for the purpose of airing dissenting views about policy questions, just as 51 diplomats signed a similar document last summer protesting President Obama’s policies on Syria.Trump wasted no time making it clear he would not tolerate that sort of thing. He sent his press secretary, Sean Spicer, out to deliver a warning to the diplomats who disagree with his immigration policies.“The president has a very clear vision,” Spicer said. He added: “If somebody has a problem with that agenda, that does call into question whether or not they should continue in that post.”Spicer didn’t exactly threaten to fire the diplomats, which would be illegal, but the message was clear. Trump doesn’t want to hear from dissenters about his immigration policies, or anything else, just as Bush and Cheney didn’t want to anyone to brook any opposition on torture, detention, wiretapping or Iraq.
One of the most disturbing things about the Trump administration is its antipathy toward public schools.Perhaps you remember the president’s mini-rant in his inaugural speech about an “education system flush with cash but which leaves our young and beautiful students deprived of all knowledge.”Well, Trump’s choice for secretary of education, Betsy DeVos, is responsible for Michigan’s charter school boom, which currently costs the state about $1.1 billion a year. A 2014 investigation by The Detroit Free Press found myriad examples of “wasteful spending and double-dipping.” Thanks in large part to DeVos’s lobbying in the Legislature, there’s virtually no oversight. So much for the young and beautiful students.Take that for a rant.DeVos is stupendously rich, and a longtime crusader for charters, vouchers and using federal funds for religious education. She was once the Michigan Republican state chairwoman, a fact completely unconnected to the $200 million or so her family has donated to the party. She’s used all that clout to make Michigan a model of how not to improve public education.“I’m amazed at how many people on the street are saying, ‘Please, don’t let her be in charge of education,’ ” said Senator Patty Murray, the ranking Democrat on the committee that’s considering DeVos’s nomination, which is adorably called Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP). It’s not particularly astonishing that a Democratic senator would hear complaints about a Republican president’s nominees. But it is sort of remarkable how much ire, wrath and terror this particular one is causing. You’d expect everybody would be focused on the proposed budget director who wants to cut Social Security and failed to pay taxes on his babysitter’s salary.The committee is scheduled to vote Tuesday on the nomination. So far there’s not much sign of Republican defections, even though DeVos’s appearance before it was a disaster. The chairman, Lamar Alexander, desperately tried to throw himself in front of the train wreck. But it was hopeless, even before DeVos said that guns in school might be necessary “to protect from potential grizzlies.”Poor Senator Alexander, who was once secretary of education himself, has an excellent reputation for bipartisanship. But there he was, limiting his members to five minutes worth of questions each and refusing to allow a second round.In the short time allotted, the committee did manage to learn that DeVos doesn’t understand federal laws on educating disabled students and that in all her years working on school reform in Detroit, she has never asked any public school principals whether they had enough resources.We have two problems here. One is that DeVos is obviously unqualified. While it was nice to learn that she “mentors students,” that’s not really a great preparation for running a 4,400-employee organization with a $68 billion budget. She has never actually worked in a school system or managed a large institution — she and her husband became billionaires through the old-fashioned strategy of having stupendously rich parents.DeVos’s big selling point for Republicans is her manic devotion to charter schools. There are, of course, some great charters around the country. But there are also some terrible ones, and she is deeply unenthusiastic about any system that would weed out the losers.This would be the second problem.DeVos seems to be a particularly big fan of for-profit schools. There’s nothing more disturbing about the school-choice movement than its infatuation with private enterprise. Running schools like a business (and, of course, driving away the teachers unions) is supposed to create more efficiency. But mainly, it creates more income for management. About 80 percent of the charters in the Michigan system are for-profit, and The Free Press investigation found that the charters were generally spending more on administration and less on the classroom than traditional districts.The DeVos family has invested in a company called K12, which runs online charters and has a history of wooing urban parents by suggesting that their kids will be safer going to school in the living room. The Walton Family Foundation, a huge supporter of school choice in general, funded a recent study which determined that if the virtual charters were grouped together as a single school district, “it would be the ninth-largest in the country and among the worst performing.”At the hearing, Senator Tim Kaine (wow, seems like a long time since we were thinking about Tim Kaine) asked whether DeVos would insist upon “equal accountability” for all schools that receive federal funding “whether public, public charter or private.”“I support accountability,” said the nominee. This went on for some time, but she just would not go for that “equal.”Finally, Kaine volunteered that he thought all schools that receive taxpayer funding should be equally accountable, and he asked if DeVos agreed.“Well, no,” she replied.
There are varying degrees of absurdity in the fallacies President Trump peddled during his first week in the Oval Office. Perhaps the most damaging was his insistence that millions of Americans voted illegally in the election he narrowly won.Mr. Trump first made that false claim in late November, tweeting that he would have won the popular vote “if you deduct the millions of people who voted illegally.” On Wednesday, he announced that he intended to launch a “major investigation” into voting fraud and suggested the outcome may justify tightening voting rules.What once seemed like another harebrained claim by a president with little regard for the truth must now be recognized as a real threat to American democracy. Mr. Trump is telegraphing his administration’s intent to provide cover for longstanding efforts by Republicans to suppress minority voters by purging voting rolls, imposing onerous identification requirements and curtailing early voting.“This is another attempt to undermine our democracy,” said Representative Barbara Lee of California, one of the states where Mr. Trump falsely claimed results were tainted by large-scale fraud. “It’s about not honoring and recognizing demographic change.”The apparent source of Mr. Trump’s original claim of mass voter fraud was Gregg Phillips, a Texas man with a penchant for making wild allegations about voting fraud. Days before Mr. Trump’s tweet, Mr. Phillips claimed on Twitter that he had “verified more than three million votes cast by non-citizens.” State election officials across the political spectrum promptly rejected that assertion, noting that ballot box fraud in the United States is exceedingly rare.On Friday, Mr. Trump tweeted that he was looking forward to seeing the results of an analysis of illegal votes, as promised by Mr. Phillips. Republican officials know the voter fraud claim is an indefensible lie. But few are challenging Mr. Trump or raising alarms about how severely this hurts our election system.Voter suppression initiatives have grown increasingly common since the Supreme Court invalidated a central provision  of the Voting Rights Act in 2013, making it easier for local authorities to tweak election rules in a manner that disenfranchises particular groups of people.Under the Obama administration, the Justice Department aggressively fought these efforts. Lawsuits filed by civil rights advocates and the Justice Department led a federal appeals court in 2013 to strike down a North Carolina voter ID law that justices concluded had been designed to target African-American voters with “surgical precision.” Litigation in a similar Texas case is now on hold, pending guidance from the new attorney general.If Mr. Trump’s attorney general nominee, Senator Jeff Sessions, is confirmed, the Justice Department will be likely to all but abandon enforcement of the Voting Rights Act. Mr. Sessions once called it a “piece of intrusive legislation.” That would allow state and national lawmakers to impose even tighter voting requirements, harming minorities, the young and the elderly, who tend to vote Democratic.Republicans may see these measures as a means of staying in power in the face of demographic changes. They should be ashamed of undermining the integrity of our system of government by trying to strip away a right Americans have fought for and died to secure.
When President Trump presides over his first meeting of the National Security Council, possibly this week, he is likely to confront a decision whose urgency is matched only by its complexity: whether to arm Syrian Kurdish fighters poised to liberate the Islamic State’s Syrian stronghold in Raqqa.Taking back Raqqa, along with Mosul in Iraq — where Iraqi forces backed by the United States-led coalition have freed about half of the city — will effectively eliminate the Islamic State’s self-declared caliphate. The consequences for the Islamic State will be devastating. It will no longer control significant territory within which to train and harbor foreign fighters or exploit resources. It will lose the foundation of its most compelling narrative: the construction of an actual state.As the noose around the Islamic State tightens, it has tried to adapt by plotting, inspiring or taking responsibility for indiscriminate attacks around the world: a nightclub in Orlando, Fla., a promenade in Nice, France, a cafe in Dhaka, Bangladesh, a square in Istanbul. Recruits are being told to stay home and attack there. Foreign fighters are being pushed out of Iraq and Syria, back to where they came from. The Islamic State directs its external operations from Raqqa. Hence, the urgency of Raqqa’s liberation.The only fighters capable of seizing Raqqa belong to our most effective partner on the ground — the Syrian Democratic Forces, a mixture of Arabs and Kurds dominated by the People’s Protection Units, a Kurdish militia. The S.D.F. can succeed only if it is armed to overcome the Islamic State’s ferocious urban resistance of snipers, suicide bombers and improvised explosive devices.In the last days of the Obama administration, the Pentagon said it would immediately seek permission from President Trump to do just that. It rightly wants to take advantage of the S.D.F.’s momentum in isolating Raqqa.It is also determined to get the several hundred Special Operations forces President Barack Obama ordered into Syria the most effective partners possible.So what’s the rub? Turkey — a NATO ally and key player in Syria — passionately opposes any American support to the Syrian Kurds, especially the protection units. It is angered by the militia’s links to the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, known as the P.K.K., a terrorist group that has plagued Turkey for decades.The end of a cease-fire between the Turkish government and the P.K.K. has produced repeated attacks by the Kurdish group and a scorched-earth campaign by the government. Ankara argues that any aid the United States gives the People’s Protection Units militia will end up in the hands of the P.K.K. and be used to murder Turkish civilians.As deputy secretary of state, I spent hours with my Turkish counterparts trying to find a modus vivendi for continuing American support to the Syrian Democratic Forces. At every juncture — from the liberation of Manbij in northeastern Syria to the isolation of Raqqa — they protested angrily and threatened repercussions, including denying the international coalition access to Incirlik air base and slowing counterterrorism cooperation. Anti-American rhetoric surged in the Turkish media. Each time, it took President Obama’s direct engagement with Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, to smooth the way just enough to keep going.If President Trump approves the Pentagon’s recommendation to arm the S.D.F., it will fall to him to keep Mr. Erdogan onboard — a first, highly charged test of his diplomatic skills. There is an art to this deal.First, Mr. Trump should make clear that he has no more urgent priority than defeating the Islamic State — and that Raqqa cannot wait. Pushing the pause button in the illusory search for an alternative liberation force more amenable to Turkey would delay any move on Raqqa for months.Second, any support we provide the Syrian Democratic Forces should be mission-specific — just enough to do the job in Raqqa, not enough to risk spillover to the P.K.K. United States Special Operations forces will have to ensure the S.D.F. is using resources only for its intended purpose.We should insist that it commit to not use any weapons against Turkey, to cede liberated Raqqa to local forces, to respect Syria’s territorial integrity and to dissociate itself from the P.K.K.Third, keeping the S.D.F. focused on Raqqa keeps it away from the Turkish-Syrian border — and any effort by Syrian Kurds to join the area they control in a contiguous Kurdish region or state. Turkish troops entered Syria to prevent the emergence of such a state. President Trump should clearly reiterate our own opposition to such a development.Fourth, Turkey wants to take back the Islamic State-controlled town of Al Bab before the Syrian Kurds do. President Trump should back strong American air support for the Turkish operation there and reiterate our determination to help Turkey consolidate a broader buffer zone in northern Syria.Fifth, Mr. Trump should double down on support for Turkey’s fight against the P.K.K., including helping find the group’s leadership holed up in Iraq’s Qandil Mountains.Finally, the president must rethink last week’s executive order on immigration. At the very moment the Islamic State is on its heels, the order risks becoming a recruitment bonanza for jihadists while shutting America’s doors to the very people taking the fight to the Islamic State on the ground.
This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox.Let’s not mince words. President Trump’s recent actions are an attempt to move the United States away from being the religiously free country that the founders created — and toward becoming an aggressively Christian country hostile to other religions.On Friday, his White House deliberately excluded mention of Jews from its statement on Holocaust Remembrance Day. A Trump aide, Hope Hicks, explained that mentioning Jews would have been unfair to the Holocaust’s other victims — a line that happens to be a longtime trope of anti-Semites and Holocaust deniers in Europe.“The Holocaust was about the Jews,” former Reagan speechwriter John Podhoretz wrote in Commentary this weekend, “There is no ‘proud’ way to offer a remembrance of the Holocaust that does not reflect that simple, awful, world-historical fact.”On Friday afternoon, of course, Trump signed an executive order barring refugees and citizens of seven majority Muslim countries from entering the United States. It was his way of making good on a campaign promise to ban Muslims from the country.The order also said it would eventually give priority to religious minorities from these countries. And if anyone doubted who that meant, Trump gave an interview Friday to the Christian Broadcasting Network, explaining that its goal was indeed to help Christians. Fortunately, many Christian leaders are opposing the policy.I expect that Trump’s attempts to undermine the First Amendment will ultimately fail. But they’re not guaranteed to fail. He is the president, and he has tremendous power.The attempts will fail only if Americans work to defeat the White House’s flirtations with theocracy — as so many people began to do this weekend. This passionate, creative opposition may help explain Trump’s weakening of the ban on Sunday. Yet the struggle to defend American values is clearly going to be a long and difficult one.As for reading suggestions, I recommend that you study up on recent history. On Friday, Vice President Mike Pence and Defense Secretary James Mattis stood beside Trump, clapping and nodding as he signed the executive order (while Paul Ryan and other top Republicans were largely quiescent).A year ago, however, Pence thought that calls to ban Muslims were “offensive and unconstitutional.” Last summer, Mattis said, “This kind of thing is causing us great damage.” In June, Ryan said, “I do not think it is reflective of our principles, not just as a party but as a country.”
HAVANA — R.P. is a Cuban entrepreneur. His business consists of him and his car — but this is not just any man and any car. R.P. is 40 years old. Sixteen years ago he graduated with a degree in mechanical engineering from Havana’s technological university, but six years ago, when government relaxed the rules on private enterprise, he left his transportation specialist job to become a taxi driver. Almost immediately he started earning five, six times his previous salary. His car, of course, is as idiosyncratic and Cuban as he is: a 1957 Chevrolet Bel Air he inherited from his father.A year ago, R.P. converted his sedan into a convertible, the mode of transportation most sought-after by the new crowds of American visitors keen to take in Havana’s sights. To perform this reconstructive surgery, R.P. spent his entire savings and more, some $3,000.But in November, the American president-elect, Donald J. Trump, threatened to roll back the countries’ newly restored relations. Now R.P. has no idea whether his business will continue to prosper or if he just made the worst investment of his life.Barack Obama and Cuba’s president, Raúl Castro, began the process of loosening the embargo and strengthening diplomatic ties between their two countries in December 2014. One of the most visible signs of these improved relations was the expansion of Americans’ ability to visit the island and the reinstatement of commercial flights. The most notable of all was the revocation in January 2017 of the “wet foot, dry foot” policy under which Cubans who reached the United States could stay — a policy that the Cuban government had greatly resented.That was Mr. Obama’s doing, however. It seems doubtful that the relationship between Cuba and the United States will continue to improve under his successor.On a recent morning, a plane touched down at the Havana airport. The flight, from Miami, lasted 45 minutes. Safely landed, the passengers had to wait another 45 minutes on the runway for a portable staircase to arrive so they could disembark. They then spent 90 more minutes at immigration, customs and baggage retrieval. Total: three hours.That same evening, on a TV news program, the supervisor of the airport terminal assured viewers that the airport was able to handle the present volume of visitors to Cuba and could absorb even more passengers if the travel embargo were completely eliminated. Yet many Cubans (both here and in the United States, I believe) can’t help wondering whether that will happen.A reversal in the present state of relations could revive the mistaken political calculation that a hostile American policy will destabilize the island’s government. Cuba, as we know by now, has survived everything from Cold War tensions to the embargo that began in 1962 to the collapse of European Communism, which plunged the country into dire economic straits. The Cuban government withstood those assaults, but it was the Cuban people who bore the brunt of the sacrifice and suffering.Since Raúl Castro assumed the presidency from his brother Fidel in 2008, one of the most profound changes in Cubans’ lives has been the loosening of restrictions on their travel abroad.This change has spawned more emigration and a lucrative cottage industry: Many Cubans now travel to Panama, Ecuador, Mexico and Miami as “mules,” returning with kitchen appliances, clothing and food that supply small businesses and the black market here. With each voyage the “mule” can earn up to $200, or what a Cuban doctor earns in four months.Now President Trump is threatening this freedom, saying that either Cuba changes its political system or he will reverse the United States’ stance. This would effectively continue a policy that President Obama and many others viewed as a failure.Even with the recovery of the tourism industry and small private businesses, the Cuban economy shrank by 0.9 percent in 2016. In his end-of-the-year address, Raúl Castro called for a more dynamic policy to attract foreign investment. The country needs it to grow. The new relationship with Europe has helped bring Old World businessmen to the island. If Mr. Trump reinstates the old policy, he will prevent American businesses from doing what they normally do: make progress in existing spaces and create new ones, even with an embargo. Will that be good business for the United States?In the meantime, R.P. and other entrepreneurs like him pray that Cuba’s relationship with the United States will continue to improve. If it doesn’t, their investments and hope for a better life don’t stand a chance. At the same time, hundreds of Cubans preparing to emigrate by crossing the Mexican border were suddenly surprised by the change in immigration policy that Mr. Obama put in place. It has left many of them in limbo, with their houses and goods here already sold.Mr. Trump’s unsettling comments in November came just as Cubans were mourning the death of Fidel Castro, for so many decades a boogeyman for Washington. After the nine intense days of funeral rites, which came to an end on Dec. 4 — a significant date in Cuba because it is the day of St. Barbara, syncretized as the Orisha warrior Chango — life on the island slowly recovered its very Cuban normality.Many people celebrated Christmas. The top baseball players still on the island began the decisive playoff period, while the Yoruba priests, in their annual predictions, announced that 2017 would be a magnificent year. But people still are wondering what will happen in the coming months, without Fidel in Cuba and with Mr. Trump on the other side of the Florida Straits and the new immigration agreements in place. Will it really be a good year for Cubans?
Amherst, Mass. — In an emblematic essay called “The Wall and the Books,” the Argentine writer Jorge Luis Borges wrote about Shih Huang Ti (also known as Qin Shi Huang), the Chinese emperor who in 220-206 B.C. built the original Great Wall of China. In his essay Borges points out that the same emperor who implemented the project also banned all books from the kingdom. His intention was clear: The wall was meant to defend his people against enemy incursions; and the burning of all literature announced that all memory of the past needed to be erased. History for Shih Huang Ti started with him.President Trump is looking more and more like an emperor these days. The decision by his administration to bring down the Spanish-language side of the White House website is an egregious attack against an essential aspect of today’s America. And next comes the wall he has ordered along the United States-Mexican border.Ours, after all, is a multilingual culture. And in the last few decades, the Spanish language has become unquestionably one of the most significant in that plurality. It is the second most used tongue in the land, with about 38 million speakers. In the context of the Hispanic world, Spanish speakers in the United States are the fifth largest community after Mexico, Colombia, Spain and Argentina. Such is its ubiquity that calling it foreign no longer seems logical.The president is nefariously monolingual. At the beginning of the Republican primary, Mr. Trump admonished Jeb Bush for speaking in the native tongue of his wife, Columba, a Mexican-American. “This is a country where we speak English, not Spanish,” he said.Barack Obama speaks some Indonesian and George W. Bush is conversational in Spanish. Bill Clinton understands German. The further back we go in time, the more polyglot our leaders become: Franklin D. Roosevelt spoke French and German, as did his uncle Teddy. The list of United States presidents with knowledge of Greek and Latin is substantial. And then there’s Thomas Jefferson, who was fluent in Greek and Latin as well as Italian, French and Spanish. A role model. Or perhaps an endangered species.Mr. Trump is not only among the most limited of this bunch. He also appears to be allergic to foreign languages, especially Spanish. The list of his misuses during the presidential campaign is, in and of itself, infamous, including expressions like “bad hombres.”Sean Spicer, Mr. Trump’s press secretary and a man also not known for his subtleties, announced recently that the disappearance of all Spanish is temporary and said technicians are working on updating the content. “It will take awhile longer,” he added.While this is to be hoped, the sheer decision to vanish what was on display during the Obama administration sends a clear signal. This is the same strategy that may be used against Obamacare: first repeal, then … we’ll see! In other words, discard what’s in use in order to start from scratch, on your own terms, as if the past was of little importance.Under Mr. Obama, the White House kept a Spanish-language blog, too. In fact, President Obama himself tweeted en español on Jan. 13: “Gracias por todo. Mi último pedido es el mismo que el primero. Que creas, no en mi capacidad de crear cambio, sino en la tuya.” (“Thanks for everything. My last wish is the same as the first. That you believe not in my capacity for change, but in yours.”)Of course, language can thrive in adverse circumstances. Spanish is already a magisterial economic force in the United States. It is the most frequently taught foreign language on college campuses. Likewise, Latinos are the only minority ever to have two full-fledged TV networks in their own immigrant tongue, Univision and Telemundo. Spanish radio is enormously influential in political terms. And I’m referring here only to culture. At the corporate level, investment in the Spanish-language market is among the most vigorous in the nation.Mr. Trump ought to know all this. Yet he feigns ignorance, such is his disdain for Latinos. His team doesn’t have a single prominent Latino. He seldom talks of Latin America in his geopolitical plans, except when he talks about Mexico, which he sees as a nest of criminals.My feeling is that the efforts to suppress Spanish have the opposite effect. It will increasingly be seen as a language of resistance, which will only help its cause. Mr. Trump won the election in a crusade against globalization. Now that he is in power, the rationale against isolationism needs to be made even sharper. The Spanish language is the perfect place to start. From Florida to the Southwest, it is in the substratum of America. A large portion of our land started in Spanish, just as a substantial portion of our population lives in it. Spanish is also a bridge to our southern neighbors. Globalization starts in the kitchen, the classroom, the street — it starts by recognizing our multifaceted heritage in the mirror.Actually, there is a lesson in the resistance Latin Americans engaged in as they navigated dictatorships in the darkest moments of the 20th century: It was often through language — in protest songs, storytelling and poetry — that they kept freedom alive. Thanks to Mr. Trump, the Spanish language in the United States has suddenly become a tool of defiance.Obliterating history and building walls is a common task of emperors.
Great comfort can be found in “alternative facts.” If presented by a literary truthteller like George Orwell, they provide a welcome antidote to the alarming versions of reality generated daily by President Donald Trump.An assortment of dystopian classics have been racing up retailers’ best-seller lists since Mr. Trump took over the White House. Philip Roth’s novel “The Plot Against America,” Mr. Orwell’s “1984” and Sinclair Lewis’s “It Can’t Happen Here” are being consulted as a literary trove for plumbing the national Id. Aldous Huxley’s “Brave New World” and Philip Dick’s “The Man In The High Castle” are pored over for political clues to whatever is coming.Quality reading has become an angst-driven upside to the new Trump era, even if — and maybe because — the president himself is said to not often read books. The best part is that readers are free to customize their own literary escapes. Customizing Trump Lit lets a reader revisit the comfort of nonexistent places like Yoknapatawpha County. The new first family’s ascension from political nowhere to the White House recalls the Snopes family’s political rise in William Faulkner’s mythical Mississippi county that culminated in their arrival at “The Mansion.”Visiting the Morgan Library & Museum in Manhattan the other day for its exhibition on Emily Dickinson, I found an unexpected flash of Mr. Trump in her poem “I’m Nobody! Who Are You?” The second stanza leapt forth:“How dreary — to be — Somebody!How public — like a Frog —To tell your name — the livelong JuneTo an admiring Bog!”There certainly is a new Somebody in the White House. We have seen his fury when his resounding Somebodyness is questioned. And the admiring Bog already seems a replacement for the D.C. swamp so often denounced in Mr. Trump’s campaign vows.Headlines from the Trump White House keep feeding a reader’s need for fresh escape. Stephen Bannon, the right-wing iconoclast who is President Trump’s chief White House strategist, imperiously demanded the news media “keep its mouth shut and just listen for a while.” Such a trusted aide at the president’s ear summons up Chance the gardener (Chauncey Gardiner) in Jerzy Kosinski’s novel “Being There,” who offers simplistic bromides about the nation’s problems to a credulous president. In the movie, Chauncey, played hilariously by Peter Sellers, becomes popular in his own right for “his simple brand of wisdom.”As Mr. Trump dissimulates further, the reading list can only grow, touching on the works of Richard Condon. He was the author of the Cold War novel “The Manchurian Candidate” who contended, “Although the paranoiacs make the great leaders, it’s the resenters who make their best instruments.”
It’s a brave new world.
To the Editor:Re “Pledge to Find Election Fraud Few Say Exists” (front page, Jan. 26):Congressional Democrats should welcome with open arms Donald Trump’s call for a voter fraud investigation. True, the president’s view on the subject is delusional, but let the Justice Department once and for all officially determine that virtually no voter fraud exists.That would deprive Republican-controlled state governments from using that false rationale to justify ever more restrictive voter ID laws, which are, in truth, designed to disenfranchise minorities who historically tend to vote Democratic.PETER WORTMANNNew YorkTo the Editor:President Trump is convinced, almost to the point of paranoia, that millions of people illegally voted against him in the presidential election, handing Hillary Clinton a victory in the popular vote. How does Mr. Trump know that most voted for Mrs. Clinton? Perhaps they favored Mr. Trump, and their illegal votes handed Mr. Trump his narrow Electoral College victory in key swing states.DOUGLAS F. CARLSONSan FranciscoTo the Editor:President Trump has indicated that he will initiate an investigation on massive voter fraud. There are two possible conclusions for such an investigation:1. There was no massive fraud. In that case our president has been involved once again in either delusion, falsehoods, alternative facts or flat-out lies.2. There was massive fraud. There is no way to know for whom the fraudulent votes were cast. The November elections would need to be declared null and void and new elections called.CARLOS HOJVATArlington, Va.To the Editor:There are tens of thousands of local, state and national elections conducted every cycle, many of them run by professionals, Republicans and Democrats, who do extensive analysis of voter lists and the vote. I think people fail to realize just how much scrutiny of the vote takes place every election.I’ve personally observed the tabulation of the vote. One of the many factors ensuring our elections’ integrity is the participation of large numbers of people with different agendas. Candidates for state and local office care most about their own races, and if there were any evidence of illegal voting, it would be discovered and exploited.MARK GOODWINSan Leandro, Calif.To the Editor:What does investigation into voter fraud mean? That President Trump will single out for examination every voter with a Hispanic name? That government officials will go to people’s houses and demand to see birth certificates or naturalization papers?As for dead people on the rolls and multiple voter registrations, that is because voting rolls aren’t fully updated; it doesn’t mean that dead people voted or that people voted multiple times.KAREN RUBINGreat Neck, N.Y.To the Editor:The executive order by President Trump to initiate an investigation into election fraud is a distraction. The public and the press should not fall for this or many other such distractions that will be created by the White House. I want the press to keep an eye on the real issues and report them accurately.KHALID REHMANNew YorkTo the Editor:President Trump’s voter fraud investigation calls to mind Captain Queeg’s strawberry theft investigation in “The Caine Mutiny.” Both weirdly obsessive absurdities call into question fitness for command.STEVEN T. CORNELIUSSENPoquoson, Va.
President Trump signed an executive order on Friday that purports to bar for at least 90 days almost all permanent immigration from seven majority-Muslim countries, including Syria and Iraq, and asserts the power to extend the ban indefinitely.But the order is illegal. More than 50 years ago, Congress outlawed such discrimination against immigrants based on national origin.That decision came after a long and shameful history in this country of barring immigrants based on where they came from. Starting in the late 19th century, laws excluded all Chinese, almost all Japanese, then all Asians in the so-called Asiatic Barred Zone. Finally, in 1924, Congress created a comprehensive “national-origins system,” skewing immigration quotas to benefit Western Europeans and to exclude most Eastern Europeans, almost all Asians, and Africans.Mr. Trump appears to want to reinstate a new type of Asiatic Barred Zone by executive order, but there is just one problem: The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965 banned all discrimination against immigrants on the basis of national origin, replacing the old prejudicial system and giving each country an equal shot at the quotas. In signing the new law, President Lyndon B. Johnson said that “the harsh injustice” of the national-origins quota system had been “abolished.”Nonetheless, Mr. Trump asserts that he still has the power to discriminate, pointing to a 1952 law that allows the president the ability to “suspend the entry” of “any class of aliens” that he finds are detrimental to the interest of the United States.But the president ignores the fact that Congress then restricted this power in 1965, stating plainly that no person could be “discriminated against in the issuance of an immigrant visa because of the person’s race, sex, nationality, place of birth or place of residence.” The only exceptions are those provided for by Congress (such as the preference for Cuban asylum seekers).When Congress passed the 1965 law, it wished to protect not just immigrants, but also American citizens, who should have the right to sponsor their family members or to marry a foreign-born spouse without being subject to pointless discrimination.Mr. Trump may want to revive discrimination based on national origin by asserting a distinction between “the issuance of a visa” and the “entry” of the immigrant. But this is nonsense. Immigrants cannot legally be issued a visa if they are barred from entry. Thus, all orders under the 1952 law apply equally to entry and visa issuance, as his executive order acknowledges.Note that the discrimination ban applies only to immigrants. Legally speaking, immigrants are those who are given permanent United States residency. By contrast, temporary visitors like guest workers, students and tourists, as well as refugees, could still be barred. The 1965 law does not ban discrimination based on religion — which was Mr. Trump’s original proposal.While presidents have used their power dozens of times to keep out certain groups of foreigners under the 1952 law, no president has ever barred an entire nationality of immigrants without exception. In the most commonly cited case, President Jimmy Carter barred certain Iranians during the 1980 hostage crisis, but the targets were mainly students, tourists and temporary visitors. Even then, the policy had many humanitarian exceptions. Immigrants continued to be admitted in 1980.While courts rarely interfere in immigration matters, they have affirmed the discrimination ban. In the 1990s, for example, the government created a policy that required Vietnamese who had fled to Hong Kong to return to Vietnam if they wanted to apply for United States immigrant visas, while it allowed applicants from other countries to apply for visas wherever they wanted. A federal appeals court blocked the policy.The government in that case did not even bother arguing that the 1952 law permitted discrimination. The court rejected its defense that a “rational link” with a temporary foreign policy measure could justify ignoring the law — an argument the Trump administration is sure to make. The court wrote, “We cannot rewrite a statutory provision which by its own terms provides no exceptions or qualifications.”To resolve this case, Congress amended the law in 1996 to state that “procedures” and “locations” for processing immigration applications cannot count as discrimination. While there is plenty of room for executive mischief there, the amendment made clear that Congress still wanted the discrimination ban to hold some force. A blanket immigration prohibition on a nationality by the president would still be illegal.Even if courts do find wiggle room here, discretion can be taken too far. If Mr. Trump can legally ban an entire region of the world, he would render Congress’s vision of unbiased legal immigration a dead letter. An appeals court stopped President Barack Obama’s executive actions to spare millions of undocumented immigrants from deportations for the similar reason that he was circumventing Congress. Some discretion? Sure. Discretion to rewrite the law? Not in America’s constitutional system.
President Trump lost the popular vote by nearly three million votes, the largest negative margin for anyone elected president in the modern era. But on Monday, during his first official meeting with congressional leaders, Mr. Trump insisted that he actually won the popular vote — once you subtract the three million to five million illegally cast ballots, all of which he says, were cast “for the other side.” Now he is calling for a major federal investigation into election fraud that, according to the White House press secretary, will focus on “urban areas” in “big states” that Mr. Trump lost, like California and New York.Here are the (non-alternative) facts: There were more than 135 million ballots cast in November. A careful review by The Washington Post documented a grand total of just four cases of voter fraud nationwide — including an Iowa woman who voted twice for Mr. Trump. And during the recount litigation in Michigan, the president’s own legal team told a court that “all available evidence suggests that the 2016 general election was not tainted by fraud or mistake.”But don’t take it from them. Just ask yourself if this story seems plausible: Sophisticated cheats committed widespread election fraud to the tune of five million votes and vanished without a trace. But they forgot to steal 80,000 votes in three states (Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin) that would have been decisive for Hillary Clinton. It’s as if the thieves from “Ocean’s Eleven” broke into Fort Knox, left behind the gold bars and took a stamp collection.So why would the president make this easily debunked claim that there was widespread voter fraud?First, he faces a legitimacy problem. I’m not talking about rigged or hacked voting machines. The Rust Belt recounts show only that our voting systems score high on integrity. Sure, voting machines can always use improvements, and meltdowns have happened (see Florida, 2000). But, despite unsubstantiated concerns raised by Jill Stein and others, there is no evidence of large-scale fraud or miscounting — certainly nothing that could tip multiple states by tens of thousands of votes. The truth is that Mr. Trump won critical battleground states and the Electoral College with 304 votes. And that’s why he’s the president.The Electoral College is the law of the land, but opinion polls over the last 15 years indicate that most Americans — about 60 percent — agree that it should be scrapped in favor of the popular vote. (The number of Americans in favor of keeping the Electoral College, however, did jump to about 47 percent shortly after Mr. Trump’s victory.)The Republican Party’s outsize representation in Congress, thanks to geography and gerrymandering, in some ways parallels Mr. Trump’s minority victory. In 2012, Republican candidates for the House of Representatives received a minority of votes nationally, but captured a safe margin in the House; in 2016 they won about 50 percent of votes, but 55 percent of the seats. This disproportionality is a problem replicated in statehouses around the country — one that both parties have, to some extent, been guilty of perpetuating.If the legitimacy of the government derives from the consent of the majority, then at some point, we will have to address this disjuncture between the popular will and our elected bodies. We should start with nonpartisan redistricting reforms, and a fresh look at the Electoral College. But Mr. Trump’s comments make the adoption of democratic reforms that much harder.Second, there’s a more insidious longer-term purpose here as well. Propaganda about illegal voting has been used — throughout history and in modern times — to justify unnecessary restrictions on voting. Unpopular incumbents like Mr. Trump can help their odds of re-election with measures that make it harder for people to vote.Judging by the people with whom the president surrounds himself, such restrictions may be in the cards, starting with a clearer path for states to enact restrictive identification requirements. The president’s nominee for attorney general, Jeff Sessions, was infamous in the 1980s for a failed voter fraud prosecution against three civil rights activists, one of whom was a close aide of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. That incident helped doom his nomination for a federal judgeship.And just a few days ago, Mr. Sessions declined to commit to continuing the Department of Justice’s litigation against voter suppression laws in Texas and North Carolina — the latter of which was described by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit as targeting African-American voters “with almost surgical precision.” Ominously, the Justice Department recently asked for a postponement of a hearing in the Texas case, which might herald a switch in sides — and a transformation of the department from a reliable defender of voting rights into an enabler of state-mandated voting restrictions.The next step might be forcing voters to submit documents proving that they’re citizens. The source of Mr. Trump’s professed beliefs about illegal voting is apparently Kris Kobach, the Kansas secretary of state, who supported a law that has prevented tens of thousands of Kansans from registering to vote. Last year, in a case brought by the A.C.L.U., the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit blocked the law, ruling that Kansas can’t require citizenship papers from voters who register at the D.M.V. In an opinion by a George W. Bush appointee, Judge Jerome Holmes, the court warned that the Kansas law risked “mass denial of a fundamental constitutional right,” and called Mr. Kobach’s assertions about widespread noncitizen voting “pure speculation.”With Mr. Kobach as an adviser, the Trump administration may try to reproduce Kansas’s mass disenfranchisement on a national scale. But these kinds of voting restrictions are the opposite of what we need right now. America has one of the lowest turnout rates among Western democracies. Government is more accountable and responsive when more people, not fewer, participate.For years, red states like Montana and Idaho have used common-sense reforms that expand voter participation, like Election Day registration, without any reports (or tweets) about a horde of illegal voters. The rest of the country should follow their example and not the president’s.
Over the last 20 years, my wife and I have built several fashion companies, including Lilla P and Leo & Sage, that we design and distribute. We employ about 30 people directly, and dozens more indirectly as freelancers and sales representatives. Entrepreneurs like us should be ecstatic over the pro-business rhetoric coming out of the White House and Congress. But we’re not, because they are considering unfair tax-code changes that, if put in place, could hurt businesses like ours — and millions of American consumers.The proposal in question is the border adjustment tax, which Republicans are mulling as part of a comprehensive corporate tax reform, and which President Trump has embraced as a possible way to pay for a wall on the Mexican border.The idea behind the tax is pretty simple. Right now, companies can write off the cost of imports, whether they’re finished products or parts that are assembled domestically. In my industry — clothing and footwear — 97 percent of what is sold in America is contracted out to mills around the globe, then import the pieces for sale or final assembly here. In a market where consumers demand low-priced, high-quality products, it’s nearly impossible to do it any other way; American mills are either outdated or too small, and American production costs are too high.A border adjustment tax would “adjust” our tax bill by no longer allowing deductions on imports. At the same time, it would exempt companies from income taxes on goods sold abroad, as an incentive for exporters to base their manufacturing in the United States.Let’s look at how this would play out for a typical fashion designer in New York City. Her 20-employee company has $10 million in annual sales; her cost of goods sold is $4 million; and expenses like payroll and rent are $5 million. That leaves her company with a tidy pretax profit of $1 million, which is then subject to federal, state and local taxes. But with the border adjustment, her company’s imports will now be subject to tax — assuming she imports 100 percent of her goods, that would raise her tax base from $1 million to $5 million, even though she isn’t making any more money. Based on the proposal, her tax bill would in all likelihood exceed her profits.Our fashion designer has three options. She can shut her doors — and I know many people in the industry who, already skating on thin profit margins, probably will. She can start buying domestically — an option for some, but again, domestic supply chains in textiles and other sectors are spotty and expensive.Her third option is to pass on the cost to consumers, and that’s what most businesses will probably do. These wouldn’t be small increases; in many industries, imported goods are one of the biggest expenses. If the tax passes, consumers will have to get used to paying a whole lot more for shoes and shirts.And for TVs as well, because it’s not just fashion designers who will be affected. Anyone reliant on the global supply chain will be hurt by this tax — from electronics manufacturers to toymakers — and the American consumer will be stuck with the tab.Supporters of a border adjustment tax say it levels the playing field for exporters. By allowing profits from foreign sales to be excluded from income taxes, the tax is a countermeasure, they argue, to the value-added taxes that American manufacturers face in other countries. But that’s a fundamental misunderstanding of how a V.A.T. works — it’s a consumption tax on all goods consumed within a country, charged to domestic manufacturers and importers alike. It does not pick winners and losers, or put import-reliant companies at a disadvantage.The tax’s proponents also argue that encouraging domestic consumption — which, put differently, means sending fewer dollars overseas — would drive up the value of the dollar, making imports cheaper and offsetting the higher tax bill. If it were only that easy. Many factors other than trade affect the value of our currency, including interest rate differentials and expectations, geopolitical concerns and domestic policies. A stronger dollar might help a little, but as a business owner, I wouldn’t bet on it.And while encouraging exports in manufacturing is a good idea, a border adjustment tax could have a distorting effect on commodities like oil. America is much less dependent on imported petroleum than in the past, in large part because we produce so much of it at home. A border adjustment tax would encourage domestic oil producers to sell their bounty abroad, where it would be exempt from income taxes. But the imports that would then be required to meet domestic demand would be subject to the tax. Commodities traders will leap at the chance to make money off the difference between the cost of imported and domestic oil; by some estimates, they could drive its price 25 percent higher.We do need corporate and personal tax reform: The tax code is too complex, and compliance is too costly. But a border adjustment tax is not reform. It is a penalty on those industries that rely on imports and have no easy replacement for them. It shifts the costs of corporate tax reform and domestic manufacturing incentives directly onto the backs of American consumers in the form of significantly higher retail prices. Congress and the White House may be pro-business, but a border adjustment tax is anything but.
For days President Trump has promoted the absurd notion that three million to five million people voted illegally in the presidential election.On Wednesday morning, Mr. Trump went further.When a president demands an investigation of voter fraud, what could go wrong?Based on recent history, a lot.Little more than a decade ago, the Justice Department made investigating and prosecuting voter fraud a major priority. When top prosecutors failed to find the misconduct and refused to make partisan prosecutions, they were fired. In the fallout, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales was forced to resign in the biggest Justice Department scandal since Watergate.It seems like an odd bit of history to try to repeat — unless the goal is to clear the path for voter suppression.Let’s begin with the underlying fact: There is no epidemic of voter fraud. After Mr. Trump claimed the election was rigged, election officials from both parties, scholars, journalists and experts noted that there was simply no widespread fraud. Mr. Trump’s lawyers even confirmed this in their own court filings in recount efforts in Michigan.There was no extensive voting fraud in 2002, either, when President George W. Bush’s attorney general, John Ashcroft, made finding it a top priority for the Department of Justice. And the federal prosecutors kept coming up empty. After years of trying, they had charged more people with violating migratory bird laws than voting statutes.The White House was agitated by this failure. In October 2006, President Bush told Mr. Ashcroft’s successor, Mr. Gonzales, that he had heard about fraud in Albuquerque, Milwaukee and Philadelphia. Karl Rove, Mr. Bush’s aide, warned Mr. Gonzales he had “concerns” about voter fraud.Soon top officials concocted a way to get results: If you can’t find the crime, fire the prosecutors. In a highly unusual move, seven United States attorneys were forced to resign, on top of two more pushed out earlier.David Iglesias, a conservative Republican, was the United States attorney in New Mexico. Local Republicans became angry that he refused to bring corruption cases against Democrats. Shortly after the 2006 election he was dismissed. In his book “In Justice: Inside the Scandal That Rocked the Bush Administration,” Mr. Iglesias summed up his experience: “First would come the spurious allegations of voter fraud, then unvarnished legal manipulations to sway elections, followed by a rigorous insistence on unquestioned and absolute obedience and, finally, a phone call from out of the blue.”In Missouri, the United States attorney clashed with superiors when he refused to sign off on a lawsuit demanding a purge of state voter lists. After firing the prosecutor, Justice Department officials slipped a political aide into the position.The United States attorney in Washington State, John McKay, declined to bring voter fraud charges after a close governor’s race. Summoned to a White House interview about becoming a federal judge, Mr. McKay instead found himself grilled about party activists’ accusations that he had “mishandled” the election. Instead of becoming a judge, Mr. McKay was fired. “There was no evidence,” he later told reporters about the fraud allegations, “and I am not going to drag innocent people in front of a grand jury.”Soon scandal erupted. At one congressional hearing, Attorney General Gonzales answered “I don’t recall” or some variant 64 times. In August 2007, after his top aides quit or had been fired, he resigned.All this should rattle the new administration. The attorney general-designate, Jeff Sessions, who unsuccessfully prosecuted black voting rights activists as a United States attorney in Alabama three decades ago, had his confirmation hearing before Mr. Trump’s Twitter eruption. He now should pledge to refrain from politicizing voting rights enforcement and resist any effort to pressure prosecutors to chase imaginary fraud.These charges, of course, have a deeper political purpose. Many Americans now fear pervasive voter misconduct. That vague unease, aimed at minority voters, has been used to justify a new wave of laws to make it harder for many people to vote. Federal courts have blocked many of the worst new laws, finding them discriminatory or unconstitutional. Now it seems Mr. Trump and his allies may push for federal voting laws, requiring a passport, birth certificate or other proof of citizenship to register. Millions could find themselves disenfranchised.The president of the United States is peddling conspiracy theories that undermine our democracy for political gain. Lessons from recent history suggest that the ultimate victims of such a witch hunt will be those who pursue it.
To the Editor:Re “Why BuzzFeed Published the Dossier” (Op-Ed, Jan. 23), by Ben Smith, editor in chief of BuzzFeed, defending his decision to publish the dossier on Donald Trump and Russia:I support Mr. Smith’s decision and am dismayed by the inaction of the media until now. There was little hesitation on the media’s part to publish numerous articles about anything that had to do with Hillary Clinton’s email investigations no matter how unsubstantiated or trivial. Why was there not a similar zeal to reveal investigations with respect to Mr. Trump and his associates?BuzzFeed was not alleging that the information in the dossier was correct; it was reporting the existence of a document that our intelligence agencies thought was important enough that members of Congress as well as President Obama and then President-elect Trump needed to see it.My fear is that the current administration will have a chilling effect on the media. The courage of the media is what makes our democracy strong, and I applaud Ben Smith for his courage. We need a strong media now more than ever.JOAN STOLPENPrinceton, N.J.To the Editor:As someone who could not be more ideologically opposed to the new administration, I find Ben Smith’s justification for publishing the unverified dossier to be woefully insufficient. Since the White House has shown no qualms about creating and defending “alternative facts,” it’s more important than ever for media outlets to act with integrity, particularly those that earn their revenue via “clicks.”That BuzzFeed would choose to publish an unverified report — littered with amateurish errors and written by someone paid to dig up dirt — is at best a distraction and likely has caused real harm to principled journalists working to shed light on actual, proven concerns about the new president.YITZHAK BRONSTEINBrooklynTo the Editor:Our current president was elected, in part, by people who genuinely believe that President Obama was a Constitution-wrecking Kenyan and Hillary Clinton trafficked in child sex, had people murdered and planned to ban guns, plus countless other patently deranged nontruths.For Ben Smith to pretend that fact-checking is the job of the reader controverts every tenet of journalism. The average reader doesn’t have the time, skills or temperament to fact-check. And critical thinking is clearly another casualty of our times.My first job in publishing was as a fact-checker. I know how hard a job it is, but it’s never been more important. Now isn’t the time to abandon principles. Reality always wins.CAROL KEELEYBoulder, Colo.
To the Editor:Re “After the Women’s March” (column, Jan. 24): David Brooks fails to see that Donald Trump’s rallying cry of “Make America Great Again” is identity politics. White identity politics. Make America Great Again was a campaign promise to Mr. Trump’s largely white base that he would restore us to a time when white identity was at the head of the American power structure.Mr. Brooks rightly points out that protests have been effective for civil rights issues, but dismisses their possible effectiveness here. What are equal rights for women but civil rights issues?He then suggests that effective change comes from inside government. We are aware of that, and Emily’s List was front and center at the march. So don’t worry about us, Mr. Brooks, we will have our “mass therapy” and run for office, too.Perhaps the biggest of all of Mr. Brooks’s misconceptions is that patriarchy isn’t the problem. When you have a group of men in a room witnessing someone who inserted the word “pussy” into our common vernacular sign away access to health care for women around the world, patriarchy is the problem.Our pink hats might not suit Mr. Brooks’s notion of what patriotism should look like, but I prefer to see them as a symbol that we’ve woken up and won’t stand for even subtle displays of sexism without making ourselves known.XOCHITL GONZALEZBrooklynTo the Editor:While I generally agree that identity politics is too limiting to deal with the larger threats of a Trump presidency, the sheer size of the march shows that it was not simply about identity politics but was instead about mass revulsion in response to Donald Trump’s bullying, unstable character and Orwellian disregard for the truth. In fact several of the people in the group I marched with are conservative and have historically voted Republican.The key now is not to become complacent in the face of an administration using terms like “alternative facts” with a straight face. Coming together to acknowledge unacceptable behavior is the first step.JENNIFER ROFFNew YorkTo the Editor:There is not a person I know who attended a march who is not already following up with practical action. We were fortified and inspired by the sheer numbers, true kindness and striking diversity of all the people who joined us on Saturday.Thanks for the mansplaining, David Brooks, but we got this … and pussy hats in formation are just the start.JULIE MARKOFFLong Branch, N.J.To the Editor:David Brooks misses the boat in his condescending critique of the Women’s March. For most people who participated, the march was not an end in itself. Rather, it was Day 1 of ongoing political action that will mobilize the time, energy and resources of women and men across the United States to counter the Trump/Republican agenda in every way possible.Women of all colors and backgrounds are a huge untapped resource. If some of us are well off, we can provide time and money that will be needed to fight the retrogressive policies that are quickly being forced down our throats. If some of us have experience with political organizing, we can teach others how to work most effectively to promote our alternative agendas. If some of us have personal stories to share, we can tell them so that others will recognize and identify with our humanity, and be inspired to join our cause.The Trump campaign showed us that rallies that whip up enthusiasm from followers can be extremely effective in garnering media attention, which, in turn, contributes to shaping public opinion that eventually translates into votes. Let’s learn from that experience: We need to engage the hearts, as well as the minds, of our compatriots if we are to regain control of our ship of state.RUTH B. GOLDSTONPrinceton, N.J.
Ever since Winston Churchill first used the phrase, it has been mandatory at the first meeting of any British prime minister and American president to invoke their countries’ “special relationship.” Rarely, however, has there been as much suspense waiting to hear that phrase as when a British leader working to extract her country from Europe met on Friday with a president whose foreign policy is still a fog and whose mantra is “America first.”Prime Minister Theresa May had a lot to gain, or to lose, from her trip to Washington. Faced with negotiations over Britain’s planned exit from the European Union, she needed to demonstrate to Continental Europeans and to British voters that she had a powerful alternative source of support and trade across the Atlantic. The problem for Mrs. May was that President Trump had been saying a lot of things unacceptable to the British — about torture, NATO, Vladimir Putin and even the uselessness of the E.U., a sentiment Britain officially does not share.Mr. Trump, for his part, needed for his first meeting with a foreign leader to be at least somewhat presidential after a chaotic first week in the White House, with a deepening crisis in relations with Mexico and questions swirling about his attitude toward Russia as he prepared for a telephone conversation on Saturday with President Putin.Hanging over the meeting were reports that the Trump administration is preparing to lift sanctions against Russia, perhaps unilaterally. Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor, said, “All of that is under consideration,” on “Fox and Friends” on Friday.Mrs. May, in a speech in Philadelphia on Thursday, cautioned that the United States and Britain needed to reassure Russia’s neighbors about their security. “We should not jeopardize the freedoms that President Reagan and Mrs. Thatcher brought to Eastern Europe by accepting President Putin’s claim that it is now in his sphere of influence.”Meanwhile, the leaders of the two major E.U. countries — Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President François Hollande of France — met on Friday in Berlin, where Mrs. Merkel also cited the need to safeguard democratic freedoms at a time when Europe faces great challenges. She called for “a clear, common commitment to the European Union, to what we have accomplished, and to the values of our liberal democratic democracies.”Mrs. May and Mr. Trump both seemed relieved at the outcome of their meeting. Appearing for a quick, 18-minute news conference, they affirmed that they would negotiate a bilateral trade agreement. Mr. Trump said he would allow his defense secretary, Jim Mattis, who is against the use of torture, to override him on the matter; on Russia, he said he did not know what his relations with Mr. Putin would be. And Mrs. May, with evident relief, said Mr. Trump had expressed 100 percent support for NATO. She, like many Americans, is probably wondering how long Mr. Trump will stick to those views.Given the scrutiny Mr. Trump’s tumultuous first week attracted, and the passionate debate in England over Brexit, the meeting was certain to be minutely dissected. On balance, Mrs. May seemed to collect the special recognition she came for, and Mr. Trump at least appeared subdued. The real test for their relationship, however, may be how Mr. Trump handles America’s relations with Mr. Putin.
Last summer, it was the “end of the ‘World’ ” in The Register-Guard of Eugene, Ore.I shared the sentiment: Skate World, the roller skating rink of my youth, after almost 40 years of operation in nearby Springfield, Ore., was going to close, and a patch of the quilt of my childhood was being shorn into tatters.But the demolition of this repository of youthful memories should not have surprised me. For decades, roller skating rinks have fought for their survival, and over the past five years, participation in roller skating is down about 4 percent, according to the Sports and Fitness Industry Association.Nostalgia can be a tricky, fickle bedfellow, but there did seem to be the threat of the loss of a sense of shared, cordial space, particularly in communities that were physically spread out. As Robert Putnam noted in his 2000 book “Bowling Alone” — before the smartphone and social media era — our bridge clubs, civic groups, square dances and the like have long been a melting iceberg. Skate World felt like a giant chunk falling off.Skate World, sandwiched between Interstate 5 and the backside of Gateway Mall, carved out an unlikely sanctuary in the hearts of locals as a place for birthday parties, school field trips and other childhood loitering. It bore an ominous sign at entry, creating a crucial air of mystery and danger: “Skate at Your Own Risk.”That was the motto our family lived by. We had a couple of roller-related hospital trips, one on Skate World’s floors: My mother fell while sailing across its floors and broke her arm shortly after I was born, a testament to the bizarre stoicism of her desire to chase her trip to the maternity ward with a few laps. We weren’t a graceful people, but Skate World welcomed us nonetheless, and politely asked if we’d like to add wrist guards to our skate rentals.Many a crush was nursed within those carpeted walls, where kitschy pop and disco songs were requested one-by-one on steady rotation, the smell of stale nachos and body odor permeated the air, and beige skates were rented out with questionable aromas of their own. I was an ambidextrous child, and the symmetry of roller skating was a welcome respite from my awkwardness with physical activities that involved a ball or a racket.For a small fee, paid in loose change and crumpled dollar bills, carnations could be dedicated to those circulating on the baby blue floor, eliciting a round of giggles or groans. Chewing gum and “foul language” were supposedly banned; I can now come clean about dropping obscenity bombs in a rebellious preadolescent fervor and sneaking in Bubble Yum on multiple occasions. In a mud hole of constant drizzle, skating was a welcome activity for cooped-up children and their exhausted parents, a more kid-friendly bowling alley. As a community gathering spot, the rink felt less classist than a shopping mall but less intimidating than a church, and much less soggy than a park.It was perfect.Amid my grief over its closing, I began to wonder about the decline of roller skating, particularly in communities like Lane County that encompass an array of lifestyles: farmland, frat houses, weed dispensaries and evangelical churches, with a few rodeos and communes tossed in for good measure. Roller skating was an inherently communal pastime, and screen-free, and it was hard not to think of Skate World as a spoke in a wheel of the neighborhood. The local minor league baseball stadium and my childhood bowling alley each burning to the ground in recent years didn’t help, either.I also found myself wondering about the consequences of a beloved shared space closing its doors in this era of great disconnection. Some communities are formed through schools, churches, workplaces. But much of how we learn about one another as a society comes from physically being together in places like skating rinks. Today, we’re more likely to sext than skate, to troll online than to twirl on a floor, to rant on Twitter than dedicate carnations to one another. Social media has created a digital latticework, but it has also, for some, created abusive commenters, silos and validation rather than curiosity.As a Skate World kid, I don’t think I could have told you, nor did I care, about the political leanings of my classmates or their families. We were bound by something different from the angry Facebook stream we grew up to inhabit: a genuine interest in spending time together.A few months after I learned of the threat of Skate World’s closing, Donald J. Trump was elected president. It was a stark reminder of how complicated the country really is, let alone our knotty relationship to the idea of how things really used to be. (I’m among those who is still unclear of when exactly the “again” of Trump’s slogan was referring to.) Some 41.1 percent of Oregonians voted for Trump, not enough to help him win the state’s meager seven electoral votes but enough to indicate support for what he represented. Whether it was the election or the skating rink, the message of both transitions was clear: I once dumped allowance money dutifully into Skate World’s air hockey games and nachos, but I’ve lived mostly in New York City in the last decade. I was completely out of touch.I haven’t skated in years and am fairly certain my neon-pink Rollerblades were liquidated several garage sales ago. I’ve often wondered if the trade-off for growing up in the relative newness and freshness of the West Coast was befuddlement when it comes to historical preservation. We don’t have many old things, and we don’t really know what to do with the few that are around when our default response is to compost or field burn.On a recent visit home, I asked my 15-year-old nephew if he had been to Skate World in the last couple of years. He shrugged, then told me about the latest video game he was into. Not a scientific sample, but a hard moment to shake.But later in the year, I got a great surprise: Skate World would be saved.Dave and Debbie Berg of Puyallup, Wash., secured financing to purchase it from the Sacramento-based trusts that had controlled it. They plan to keep it open.“It’s good for the community,” Debbie Berg told me. For Berg, the purchase was personal. She worked at the rink from 1978 to 1998, she told me, and has been an impassioned skater since she was 13. “Everyone has fun here. It’s been here for 40 years. I think Bill Cook, who designed it, always wanted to keep it open as a rink. It was his baby.”Berg said that operating one of the state’s few skating rinks isn’t always easy. Payroll costs are going up, and she will probably have to raise the admission fee to accommodate those staffing costs and renovations.“But I don’t want to change it a lot,” she said. “Just little tweaks here or there.”The twists and turns at Skate World have made me wonder if today I am still a small-town skater, a New York City elitist, or maybe something in between.I’m still figuring that out. But the next time I’m in town, I know that I’ll be grateful for the opportunity to lace up some skates.For now, at least, it isn’t the end of the world after all.
Remember the good old days — by which I mean just a few weeks ago — when there was hope and talk that Donald Trump’s 36-year-old son-in-law would play the angel to Steve Bannon’s devil, tempering the president’s policies and keeping his crudest and most belligerent tendencies in check?Well, the devil is running rampant in the Trump administration so far. The angel looks ever paler and frailer, with a halo that’s hard to find.Jared Kushner, where are you?I ask that specifically, in terms of Trump’s inner circle and Bannon’s obviously greater sway. But I ask it in a broader sense as well. Where among Trump’s sanest advisers and the most reasonable Republicans in Congress is the degree of pushback that’s called for? Where are the sufficiently loud voices of dissent? Right now Trump has too many mum collaborators too content to hope for the best. I put Kushner in that pack.Bannon certainly knows how to manipulate the president and get what he wants. He’s Trump’s unabashed Iago, whispering sweet fictions about the magnitude of the “movement” that the president is leading and specifying how to feed it. He has a seat on the National Security Council. Kushner has his hand on Ivanka Trump’s seat.If you haven’t seen that photo of the couple, do find it, and bear in mind when Ivanka posted it on her social media accounts: around midnight on Saturday. Her father’s hastily, sloppily composed immigration ban was just being implemented. Many confused, frightened travelers languished in detention or limbo. Protests had erupted at American airports. But she and her husband were on the town! They beamed, resplendent in formal wear and peerless in tone deafness.A clever observer tweeted an image of Ivanka in her metallic gown next to one of a Syrian girl in a metallic emergency blanket, asking: “Who wore it better?”If Kushner has sturdy principles or half the say that Bannon does, then explain the wording of the statement that the president put out on Friday in remembrance of the Holocaust. It failed to mention Jews, an omission so glaring that it incited a furor among Jewish Republican groups. And rather than apologize to them, the administration dug in, reprimanding them for being too touchy.This had all the markings of Bannon, who deplores what he deems the politically correct coddling of minority groups. But it seemed to go against what Kushner holds dearest. He’s the descendant of Holocaust survivors, including a grandmother who helped to found the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and once complained of America’s reluctance to take in Jewish refugees who were trying to avoid extermination.His family is famous for its Jewish philanthropy. He and Ivanka, who converted to Judaism for their marriage, observe the Sabbath from sundown Friday until sundown Saturday. And yet his father-in-law fell short of the presidents before him in recognizing the horrors inflicted on Jews.Some observers point to the Sabbath as proof that Kushner does indeed exert a taming force in Trump World. They say that the president is most reckless during these periods, because Ivanka and her husband aren’t around to babysit.It was during the Sabbath that Trump pressed the National Park Service for more-flattering inauguration photos and gave that cockamamie, vainglorious speech to the C.I.A. It was the next day that he calmed down and tweeted a tribute to the Women’s March, calling peaceful protests “a hallmark of our democracy.”Both before Trump’s candidacy and at its start, Kushner was pegged as someone with mild political views. He and Ivanka ran in socially liberal crowds, and their presence beside Trump provided at least an iota of reassurance for some of the many people aghast at his racially incendiary tactics.But for Kushner, the campaign was less a political journey than an emotional one. His family had felt the lash of disdain after his father was sent to prison years earlier, and he was intent on redemption, revenge or something along those lines. Trump represented a road to a summit from which his son-in-law could lord it over the elitists who had looked down on him.Maybe he didn’t register all the ugly swerves along the way. Maybe he convinced himself that they weren’t so ugly. Maybe he believed that he’d be able to grab the wheel and correct the course. Maybe he still tells himself that, despite all the evidence to the contrary.Sometimes I study him and see someone drained of color, even thinner than before, haunted. More often I see an emblem of our morally compromised capital, full of people willing to let the Trump juggernaut flatten essential American values just as long as they get to go along for the ride.
As a Chinese-American alumnus who interviews applicants to Yale, I’m often asked one question by Asian-American students and parents: “Will being Asian hurt my chances?”I deflect these queries, since I’m just a volunteer, not a member of the admissions committee. But I understand their concern.A 2009 Princeton study showed Asian-Americans had to score 140 points higher on their SATs than whites, 270 points higher than Hispanics and 450 points higher than blacks to have the same chance of admission to leading universities. A lawsuit filed in 2014 accused Harvard of having a cap on the number of Asian students — the percentage of Asians in Harvard’s student body had remained about 16 percent to 19 percent for two decades even though the Asian-American percentage of the population had more than doubled. In 2016, the Asian American Coalition for Education filed a complaint with the Department of Education against Yale, where the Asian percentage had remained 13 percent to 16 percent for 20 years, as well as Brown and Dartmouth, urging investigation of their admissions practices for similar reasons.There’s ample evidence that Asian-Americans are at a disadvantage in college admissions. This issue has divided Asians and others who debate the relative benefits of diversity versus meritocracy in our society.I’ve often heard Asian-Americans express resentment toward blacks and Latinos for benefiting from affirmative action. As a Yale senior, I remember feeling disillusioned myself when an upper-middle-class black classmate with significantly less academic achievement than I was admitted to a top medical school that had rejected me.But if Asians are being held back, it’s not so much because of affirmative action but because of preference for whites. The 450-point advantage that the Princeton study demonstrated blacks have over Asians draws the most attention. But the number that is most revealing is the 140-point advantage for whites over Asians.To explain that disparity some might cite the myth that while Asian students have high test scores, they lack the well-rounded extracurricular interests and activities that colleges prize. But the study isolated race as a factor by controlling for variables like academic performance, legacy status, social class, type of high school (public or private), athletics and other extracurricular activities. So that 140-point gap is between a white student and an Asian student who differ only by race.Still, I’ve always supported affirmative action, though I’d much prefer that it was based on socio-economic disadvantage rather than race alone. All students benefit from having a racially diverse class. I would not have preferred to go to a Yale that was predominantly Asian. Colleges should grant an advantage to blacks and Hispanics because they continue to face barriers to equal access and opportunity.The same is not true for whites, so there is no reason they should have preference over Asians in college admissions. It would be ludicrous to state that whites have been disadvantaged in comparison to Asian-Americans. The opposite could be argued, with xenophobic persecution during “yellow peril” scares, the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, and internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II as prime examples.Often-cited examples of race-blind meritocracy are New York City’s elite public schools, such as Stuyvesant High School, for which admission is based solely on a standardized test. Stuyvesant is about 74 percent Asian, 18 percent white, 3 percent Hispanic, 1 percent black, with 4 percent multiracial or other. In California, where race-based affirmative action was eliminated in 1996, admission at the University of California at Berkeley is 42 percent Asian.I do not like this degree of racial imbalance. But for too long, many elite colleges have done too much to orchestrate the racial composition of their classes. It seems obvious that continuing to hold Asian percentages at near-constant levels required excessive tipping of the scales to the detriment of Asians — and America’s long-cherished traditions of fairness and equal opportunity.These colleges’ intentions may be good. Preserving a white majority is unlikely to be an overt goal. But whatever the reason for this frozen racial composition, it should be questioned.A school like Harvard can ensure racial diversity by employing affirmative action to increase black and Hispanic enrollment, or at least keep them stable, but should maintain a level playing field for ethnicities that are not underrepresented — whites and Asians. (And I must acknowledge that there may be signs that this is beginning to happen: the recently admitted Harvard class of 2020 is 22 percent Asian, a slight increase.)This is not an exact science, and I am not advocating drastic change. I think increasing the Asian percentage of enrollment by more than 10 percentage points from current levels could begin to upset the racial balance in a detrimental way.But allowing Asian enrollment to increase would serve to acknowledge that meritocracy, like racial diversity, is a goal worth striving for even if we know it will not be fully attained.To actively prevent this from happening isn’t discrimination for the greater good, as affirmative action was originally intended to be. It’s just discrimination.
President Trump’s executive order banning travel to the United States from seven predominantly Muslim countries is being rightly challenged in the courts for, among other things, its unconstitutional interference with free exercise of religion and denial of due process. Overlooked in the furor is another troubling aspect of the situation: President Trump omitted from his ban a number of other predominantly Muslim nations where his company has done business. This adds further illegitimacy to one of the most arbitrary executive actions in our recent history, and raises significant constitutional questions.The seven countries whose citizens are subject to the ban are relatively poor. Some, such as Syria, are torn by civil war; others are only now emerging from war. One thing these countries have in common is that they are places where the Trump organization does little to no business.By contrast, other neighboring Muslim countries are not on the list, even though some of their citizens pose just as great a risk — if not greater — of exporting terrorism to the United States. Among them are Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Egypt. A vast majority of people living in these countries, like the people living in the seven subject to the immigration ban, are peaceful and law abiding. But these three countries have exported terror to the United States in the past. They accounted for 18 of the 19 terrorists who perpetrated the Sept. 11 attack on American soil (an attack which was directed by another Saudi, Osama Bin Laden, with the assistance of an Egyptian, Ayman al-Zawahri).These countries, unlike those subject to the ban, are ones where Donald Trump has done business. In Saudi Arabia, his most recent government financial disclosure revealed several limited liability Trump corporations. In Egypt, he had two Trump companies registered. In the United Arab Emirates, he had licensed his name to a Dubai golf resort and a luxury residential development and spa. Some of these entities have since been closed, and others remain active.A look at other nations with large Muslim populations only reinforces this troubling pattern. Turkey, India and the Philippines could all pose similar risks as the banned countries of origin that concern the president. Yet Mr. Trump has done business in all three places. They, too, are omitted from his list.Our point is not, of course, that any of these other countries should be added. A country-specific ban, which experts say is an ineffective way to combat terrorism, should not exist. Our government should instead screen all immigrants for potential links to crime or terrorism, as it has long done. Discrimination based on national origin is a thinly veiled attempt to discriminate on the basis of religion. And indeed, President Trump has admitted that he wants to prioritize the settling of Christian refugees.The arbitrary and discriminatory nature of this order is bad enough; but if the president is also considering payoffs to the Trump organization, it’s much worse.As we have pointed out in a lawsuit we have filed against the president in his official capacity, payments to the president are not only unethical but unconstitutional if they come from foreign governments or entities controlled by foreign governments, such as sovereign wealth funds and state owned banks. The Emoluments Clause of the Constitution prohibits anybody holding a position of trust with the United States government, including the president, from receiving economic benefits from business dealings with foreign governments.Without President Trump’s tax returns and other information about his privately held businesses, we do not know the extent of the economic benefits he receives from governments of countries that pose a terrorism risk but are not on his immigration ban list. What we do know is that President Trump has generally refused to divest himself of his businesses, to disclose foreign government benefits coming into those businesses and to release his tax returns, and has insisted that simply because he is president, as opposed to some lower official, he “has no conflict of interest.”And now, only a week into President Trump’s term, we see the devastating consequences of this conflict of interest. It appears that immigrants from countries that can afford to do business with the Trump organization are free to come and go from the United States. Immigrants from countries that cannot afford such transactions may very well be detained at the airport and sent home, where some may perish.After the election we often heard the phrase “to the victor belong the spoils.” But there are ethical and constitutional limits to that maxim. In this case, an already suspect immigration ban is subject to yet more doubt because President Trump may be looking to his business interests at the same time as he makes decisions about human beings who want to come to America to study, earn a living, avoid persecution and in some instances, to survive.
It’s important to remember just how radical — and, yes, unprecedented — the Senate’s approach to the previous Supreme Court nominee was.Republican leaders announced last March that they would not consider any nominee. They did so even though Barack Obama still had 10 months left in his term and even though other justices (including Anthony Kennedy) had been confirmed in a president’s final year.The refusal was a raw power grab. Coupled with Republican hints that no Hillary Clinton nominee would be confirmed either, it was a fundamental changing of the rules: Only a party that controlled both the White House and the Senate would now be able to assume it could fill a Supreme Court vacancy.The change is terribly damaging for the country’s political system. It impedes the smooth functioning of the court and makes it a much more partisan institution.Of course, the strategy also worked, and the flip from an Obama justice to a Trump justice will likely be the deciding factor in many of the most important cases in coming years.So what can Democrats do?First, they need to make sure that the stolen Supreme Court seat remains at the top of the public’s consciousness. When people hear the name “Neil Gorsuch,” as qualified as he may be, they should associate him with a constitutionally damaging power grab.Second, Democrats should not weigh this nomination the same way that they’ve weighed previous ones. This one is different. The presumption should be that Gorsuch does not deserve confirmation, because the process that led to his nomination was illegitimate.Republicans still control the Senate, which means they can confirm Gorsuch if they decide to remove the filibuster during the nominating process. And so Democrats may not have the power to block the nomination.But the only reason they should vote for Gorsuch is if they decide it’s in their own political interest to do so. They may decide, for example, that any filibuster would be doomed to fail now — but might succeed if another justice leaves the court during Trump’s presidency. Or they may decide that an all-out fight would encourage Kennedy to retire, as the longtime Democrat Ronald Klain has warned. Either way, such tactical considerations are the ones that should guide Democrats.Finally, the Democratic Party should begin planning its long-term strategy for the court, and that strategy needs to revolve around last year’s events. One option, for example, would be a plan first to deprive a Republican president of one nominee in coming years and second to offer a truce with Republicans.I understand that all of these options sound aggressive and partisan, and it makes me deeply uncomfortable to make such an argument. But Democrats simply cannot play by the old set of rules now that the Republicans are playing by a new one. The only thing worse than the system that the Republicans have created is a system in which one political party volunteers to be bullied.
I am hard-pressed to think of one thing President Trump has done right in the last 11 days since his inauguration. Until Tuesday, when he nominated an extraordinary judge and man, Neil Gorsuch, to be a justice on the Supreme Court.The nomination comes at a fraught moment. The new administration’s executive actions on immigration have led to chaos everywhere from the nation’s airports to the Department of Justice. They have raised justified concern about whether the new administration will follow the law. More than ever, public confidence in our system of government depends on the impartiality and independence of the courts.There is a very difficult question about whether there should be a vote on President Trump’s nominee at all, given the Republican Senate’s history-breaking record of obstruction on Judge Merrick B. Garland — perhaps the most qualified nominee ever for the high court. But if the Senate is to confirm anyone, Judge Gorsuch, who sits on the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit in Denver, should be at the top of the list.I believe this, even though we come from different sides of the political spectrum. I was an acting solicitor general for President Barack Obama; Judge Gorsuch has strong conservative bona fides and was appointed to the 10th Circuit by President George W. Bush. But I have seen him up close and in action, both in court and on the Federal Appellate Rules Committee (where both of us serve); he brings a sense of fairness and decency to the job, and a temperament that suits the nation’s highest court.Considerable doubts about the direction of the Supreme Court have emerged among Democrats in recent weeks, particularly given some of the names that have been floated by the administration for possible nomination. With environmental protection, reproductive rights, privacy, executive power and the rights of criminal defendants (including the death penalty) on the court’s docket, the stakes are tremendous. I, for one, wish it were a Democrat choosing the next justice. But since that is not to be, one basic criterion should be paramount: Is the nominee someone who will stand up for the rule of law and say no to a president or Congress that strays beyond the Constitution and laws?I have no doubt that if confirmed, Judge Gorsuch would help to restore confidence in the rule of law. His years on the bench reveal a commitment to judicial independence — a record that should give the American people confidence that he will not compromise principle to favor the president who appointed him. Judge Gorsuch’s record suggests that he would follow in the tradition of Justice Elena Kagan, who voted against President Obama when she felt a part of the Affordable Care Act went too far. In particular, he has written opinions vigorously defending the paramount duty of the courts to say what the law is, without deferring to the executive branch’s interpretations of federal statutes, including our immigration laws.In a pair of immigration cases, De Niz Robles v. Lynch and Gutierrez-Brizuela v. Lynch, Judge Gorsuch ruled against attempts by the government to retroactively interpret the law to disfavor immigrants. In a separate opinion in Gutierrez-Brizuela, he criticized the legal doctrine that federal courts must often defer to the executive branch’s interpretations of federal law, warning that such deference threatens the separation of powers designed by the framers. When judges defer to the executive about the law’s meaning, he wrote, they “are not fulfilling their duty to interpret the law.” In strong terms, Judge Gorsuch called that a “problem for the judiciary” and “a problem for the people whose liberties may now be impaired” by “an avowedly politicized administrative agent seeking to pursue whatever policy whim may rule the day.” That reflects a deep conviction about the role of the judiciary in preserving the rule of law.That conviction will serve the court and the country well. Last week, The Denver Post encouraged the president to nominate Judge Gorsuch in part because “a justice who does his best to interpret the Constitution or statute and apply the law of the land without prejudice could go far to restore faith in the highest court of the land.”I couldn’t agree more. Right about now, the public could use some reassurance that no matter how chaotic our politics become, the members of the Supreme Court will uphold the oath they must take: to “administer justice without respect to persons, and do equal right to the poor and to the rich.” I am confident Neil Gorsuch will live up to that promise.
This article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive more briefings and a guide to the section daily in your inbox.David Brooks’s critique of the Women’s March generated a lot of discussion among Times readers. In today’s newspaper, Zeynep Tufekci offers her own critique, as someone who attended the march.It’s an important one. In the pre-internet past, Tufekci explains, a protest march was the culmination of the months of phone calls, letters and meetings needed to plan the event. The planning for March on Washington in August 1963, for example, started in 1962.Today, digital communication has made the planning of marches far easier. It can start with a single Facebook post and culminate in a march weeks later. Just look at the rapid planning and enormous turnout for the Women’s March.As a result, Tufekci argues, a protest is not necessarily a sign of an actual movement; that’s why some large protests in recent years, like those opposing the war in Iraq or the Occupy rallies, have had relatively muted real-world impact.“This doesn’t mean that protests no longer matter — they do,” Tufekci writes. “Nowadays, however, protests should be seen not as the culmination of an organizing effort, but as a first, potential step. A large protest today is less like the March on Washington in 1963 and more like Rosa Parks’s refusal to move to the back of the bus. What used to be an endpoint is now an initial spark.”All of which, once again, points to the Tea Party as a tactical model. Protests were only a very small part of what the Tea Party did. If progressives want to have an effect — if they want to defend civil rights, protect the environment and keep millions of people from losing health insurance, among other things — the hard work hasn’t even begun.Barack Obama, in his last interview as president, made the same point when asked what individual citizens could do to help protect the Affordable Care Act’s expansion of health insurance.“The work is local as opposed to federal,” Obama told the hosts of Pod Save America. “I would pay a lot of attention to what the Tea Party did fighting the Affordable Care Act. You may disagree with the Tea Party, but they were effective in making sure that their views were heard and amplified.”
In 1997, a few hundred people who responded to a job posting in a Pittsburgh newspaper agreed to let researchers spray their nostrils with a rhinovirus known to cause the common cold. The people would then be quarantined in hotel rooms for five days and monitored for symptoms. In return they’d get $800.“Hey, it’s a job,” some presumably said.Compensation may also have come from the knowledge that, as they sat alone piling up tissues, they were contributing to scientific understanding of our social-microbial ecosystem. The researchers wanted to investigate a seemingly basic question: Why do some people get more colds than others?To Gene Brody, a professor at the University of Georgia, the answer was “absolutely wild.” (Dr. Brody is a public-health researcher, so “wild” must be taken in that context.) He and colleagues recently analyzed the socio-economic backgrounds and personalities of the people in the Pittsburgh study and found that those who were “more diligent and tended to strive for success” were more likely than the others to get sick. To Dr. Brody, the implication was that something suffers in the immune systems of people who persevere in the face of adversity.Over the past two years, Dr. Brody and colleagues have amassed more evidence supporting this theory. In 2015, they found that white blood cells among strivers were prematurely aged relative to those of their peers. Ominous correlations have also been found in cardiovascular and metabolic health. In December, Dr. Brody and colleagues published a study in the journal Pediatrics that said that among black adolescents from disadvantaged backgrounds, “unrelenting determination to succeed” predicted an elevated risk of developing diabetes.The focus on black adolescents is significant. In much of this research, white Americans appeared somehow to be immune to the negative health effects that accompany relentless striving. As Dr. Brody put it when telling me about the Pittsburgh study, “We found this for black persons from disadvantaged backgrounds, but not white persons.”Dr. Brody, who does much of his work in African-American communities in rural Georgia, focuses on people who overcome the odds to prosper, academically, professionally and financially. The personality trait that predicts this kind of success against the odds is known in psychology as resilience. Many consider it desirable. Dr. Brody’s summary of the classical tenets of resilient strivers sounds like something from a motivational poster: “They cultivate persistence, set goals and work diligently toward them, navigate setbacks, focus on the long term, and resist temptations that might knock them off course.”In the United States, gaps in health and longevity between the wealthy and the poor are some of the greatest in the world. It seems natural to assume that jumping from one stratum to the next — being upwardly mobile — would come with gains in health. And conceivably it could work that way — like if a person won the lottery or achieved overnight fortune from writing a truly insightful tweet. But decades of research show that when resilient people work hard within a system that has not afforded them the same opportunities as others, their physical health deteriorates.The effect has become known as John Henryism. The term was coined by a young researcher named Sherman James in the 1980s, after he met a man named John Henry Martin. Mr. Martin didn’t have any known relation to the John Henry of folk legend who beat a mechanical steam drill in a steel-driving contest, only to collapse dead from exhaustion. (It’s debated whether the original John Henry was himself an actual person with an actual nine-pound hammer that he used to drive metal stakes into Big Bend Mountain in West Virginia in the 1870s so that dynamite could be embedded in the rock and a tunnel could be built for the C.&O. Railroad, or possibly an amalgam of many former slaves who transitioned into freedom.)Mr. Martin was born into a family of North Carolina sharecroppers in 1907. He worked tirelessly to escape the system and, by the time he was 40, owned 75 acres of farmland. But in his next decade he began to suffer from hypertension, arthritis and a severe case of peptic ulcer disease that required the removal of nearly half his stomach. As Dr. James saw it, John Henry Martin both won and lost his battle with the machine.Dr. James went on to develop what he called the John Henryism scale, meant to identify people who use “high-effort coping” to manage challenges. The scale is based on how strongly people identify with statements like “When things don’t go the way I want them to, that just makes me work even harder” and “I’ve always felt that I could make of my life pretty much what I wanted to make of it.” He found that high scores correlated with worse health among poor and working-class blacks. Notably, like Dr. Brody, Dr. James found that working-class white Americans seemed unaffected by this phenomenon.If striving against odds does cause physical harm, that could happen in multiple ways. Our environments affect how our DNA expresses itself. Dr. Brody and colleagues have found variations in DNA methylation patterns — indicators of how genes are translated — that seem to be the product of socioeconomic statuses. His team has also found elevated levels of cortisol, a stress hormone, and adrenaline circulating in the blood of strivers from a young age.“Constantly bathing cells in stress hormones, the science would suggest, could sponsor more inflammatory responses,” Dr. Brody offered, potentially leading to autoimmune disorders like diabetes.Of course, nothing about adrenaline or DNA expression should be unique to people with high levels of melanin in their skin. Why would white people appear to be immune?There’s now a website where you can enter your address and find out how long you’re going to live.At least it gives you an average. As a physician and a betting man, if I could know only one thing about a person to predict their longevity, it would probably be their address.The site works only for people in California, unfortunately, because it’s run by the California Endowment, a charitable organization whose modest mission is to “ensure health and justice for all.” The group is among many now championing the new mantra in public health: Your ZIP code matters more than your genetic code. In the San Francisco Bay Area, discrepancies in average life span from one neighborhood to the next can exceed 10 years.At the University of California, Berkeley, the public-health researcher Mahasin Mujahid works to understand the mechanisms behind these differences. There are the obvious elements: unsafe neighborhoods, food deserts, a dearth of yoga studios, etc. But it’s not always so straightforward.Last month, Dr. Mujahid published findings from a study of a (needless to say, pale) population in Finland. Lower socioeconomic status correlated with more heart attacks (as expected) — but this effect was strongest among people who scored highest on the John Henryism scale.“This is a significant step forward in understanding the generalizability of the John Henryism hypothesis,” said Dr. James, who collaborated with Dr. Mujahid on the new study. “Because we called it John Henryism, it carried a strong connotation of being unique to black men. But that wasn’t our original expectation.”When Dr. James was first coming to appreciate the John Henryism effect in the mid-1980s in eastern North Carolina, he reminded me, “the economic resources and social standing of blacks and whites in that community were very different.” Very few African-Americans had even high-level blue-collar jobs, and virtually none had white-collar jobs. Almost all white people had one or the other.“The items that speak to John Henryism don’t speak to gender or race or socioeconomic status,” said Dr. Mujahid. The scales are designed to measure repetitive, high-effort coping. Her conclusion is that because African-Americans encounter more overt and systemic discrimination, “the combination of adversity and high-effort coping is what’s having health consequences.”Globally, there is no association between skin color and the length of one’s life. This is an American phenomenon. In medical school we are taught that black men are much more likely than other patients to have hypertension, as if this were simple biology.But some data suggests that people in West African and Caribbean countries have much lower rates of hypertension than do people in the United States.“There’s very little genetic basis for hypertension,” said Dr. Mujahid. “It’s much more about social context and lifestyle.”And that social context is now changing in the United States.“Because African-Americans experience so much more exclusion and degradation — something that working-class whites didn’t experience at the time — that probably created conditions that were ripe for us to only see the effects in blacks,” Dr. James said about his research in the ’80s. “But now white Americans are experiencing a great deal of economic — and, dare I say, psychological — pain because of their dislocation as a result of powerful macroeconomic forces.”Dr. James expects John Henryism can now be seen across Western democracies, wherever people are inculcated with a Protestant sense of personal responsibility and belief in self-reliance. “When people act on that — really trying to make ends meet going up against very powerful forces of dislocation — their biological systems are going to pay a price,” he said.“That’s the situation African-Americans have been in since the beginning,” he added. “Now we’re seeing other groups begin to be exposed to these same forces.”In the spirit of the original John Henry, among those forces is technologically induced unemployment. The mechanization of labor once pushed rural Southern blacks into the factories of the North. Now mechanization is giving way to automation, affecting less-educated white Americans, especially men.The Trump administration could do much more to damage Americans’ health than just repeal the Affordable Care Act and leave people without access to hospitals and medications. “The consequences around the divisiveness, and increased instability and uncertainty for families and children, combined with increased racial tension and overt acts of discrimination,” Dr. Mujahid noted, all stand to heighten the John Henryism effect.“What we want is for people who overcome so much to achieve the American dream to have the health to enjoy the fruits of their efforts,” said Dr. Brody. “Right now that doesn’t seem to be happening.”Or maybe people should simply have to overcome less in the first place — to have something close to equal opportunity to succeed. But as the middle class contracts and wealth gaps expand, the promise of equal opportunity seems to be receding.“This is going to be a very difficult time,” said Dr. Mujahid. She added, not hopefully, “There will probably be some interesting natural experiments that emerge.”
WASHINGTON — So now we’re getting the crazy straight up.The Doomsday Clock is ticking faster, the resistance is growing, and teetotaler Donald Trump already seems drunk with power.He’s got the role of his life and he’s casting his show: Steve Bannon is his Roy Cohn, the combative hammer and agitprop genius; Theresa May is Maggie to his Ronnie; Ivanka and Jared are his consiglieri, family to help him figure out who stays and who gets iced; Vladimir Putin echoes the role of Trump’s dad, Fred, who was supremely aggressive and calculating, cool where Donald was hot, someone who believed the world was divided into killers and losers. (But in Putin’s case, it’s literal.)It took us years to find out that Richard Nixon was swilling Scotch, eating dog biscuits, talking to the White House portraits and blowing up the Vietnam peace talks in 1968 to help his election bid. It took us years to find out that, despite that deep, reassuring voice, Dick Cheney was a demented megalomaniac.But with President Trump, it’s all right out there — the tantrums, the delusions, the deceptions, the self-doubts and overcompensation.If the last president was too above the fray, this one is the fray. We’ve gone from no drama to all drama, a high ethical standard to no ethical standard.Those who go into the Oval Office with chips on their shoulders and deep wells of insecurity, like Nixon, W. and Donald Trump, are not going to suddenly glow with self-assurance. The White House tends to bring out paranoia and insecurity.Still, it was stunning how fast it got weird. To Trump biographer Tim O’Brien, the new president conjured the image of “a guy on a pogo stick in the Rose Garden bouncing around with a TV remote control in his hand trying to decide what to respond to in the next 30 seconds on Twitter.”The White House “is distilling Donald to his essence,” says another biographer, Michael D’Antonio. “If he could have commanded the attention of the world media every day of his life in the past he would have. The fact that the press corps is captive in the White House and can be dragged into these executive order signings is, for him, like mainlining heroin.“He has hit his stride and is thrilled with this. The only thing that torments him is the disapproval of The New York Times. Every story that is critical of him hurts.”The former reality star who now denies reality rode the resentment of the aggrieved white working class to the Oval Office and bashes the press but, as D’Antonio says, “he wants the elites’ approval and is always enraged when he doesn’t get it.”Instead of basking in the most unlikely victory in modern history, President Trump spiraled into a bizarre, Freudian obsession about whether the crowd on the Mall for his inaugural speech was as big as President Obama’s in 2009.When the National Park Service retweeted a picture comparing the crowds of the two presidents, showing unoccupied swaths at Trump’s, the Trump administration punished the trolling resisters at the park service by shutting down their Twitter account for the night.On Saturday, the skyscraper czar who pledged to do big things used his first full day as president to again go small. According to The Washington Post, Trump called the acting director of the park service to berate him about the retweet and order him to provide different photos that depicted the crowd that churned through the windmills of his mind.Then President Trump went to the C.I.A. and, instead of apologizing for comparing the intelligence community to Nazi Germany, continued to whinge about the “dishonest” media’s coverage of his crowd size.Later in the day, agitated by that and by the remarkable swell of women’s marches with their pink-hat contempt for him — around the world and outside his window — President Trump brushed off the advisers trying to calm him down and sent Sean Spicer rushing out to hotly confront the press and offer his now infamous alternative facts.The 70-year-old 7-year-old disapproved of Spicer’s erratic delivery and ill-fitting light-colored suit. The Post reported that Trump didn’t think Spicer was fiery enough as he delivered his defense of Trumpworld, a place where the high chair king’s ego takes primacy over actual facts. The new president doesn’t care about weakening democracy if his delicate ego needs to assert the easily disproved: that he would have won the popular vote if there weren’t massive voter fraud.Now the president is home alone, signing executive orders banning all Syrians in the middle of their devastating war and others from Muslim countries in a document that will come to be seen as a stain on our country and will only serve as a recruiting tool for jihadis. This, while he’s telling The Times’ Maggie Haberman that he loves the “beautiful phones” in the White House and has limited TV time in the morning because his meetings start at 9.“He is really a unique creature,” D’Antonio says. “He’s transfixing, riveting, really. It’s hard to take your eyes off him.”I ask the biographer if he’s as nervous as everyone else, and he says yes.“Donald’s manic without being depressive,” he muses. “The only thing you can do is keep him distracted for a day and then one more day so that he doesn’t do anything disastrous.”Just like Obama and May, D’Antonio says, “a lot of people over the years have tried to mollify him and accommodate him day by day. And eventually you get a year behind you. Everybody else wants stability, but he thrives in turmoil.”
To the Editor:Re “ ‘Care Chasm’ Forces Women to Forgo Jobs” (front page, Jan. 25):Women’s declining work force participation is a serious concern for Republicans as well as Democrats. The Republican Main Street Partnership — a group of more than 70 members of Congress — has just released its 2017 policy agenda, which includes several work force flexibility proposals.This has also been an issue we hear about repeatedly in our outreach efforts to women around the country.A number of Main Street’s members, including Representatives Elise Stefanik of New York, Patrick Tiberi of Ohio and Mimi Walters of California, are working on bills that could help families deal with the kinds of situations mentioned in the article and allow more women to return to the work force.SARAH CHAMBERLAINPresident and Chief ExecutiveRepublican Main Street PartnershipWashington
This Week in Hate highlights hate crimes and harassment around the country since the election of President Trump.Farhiyo Hassan was watching TV coverage of President Trump’s ban on immigration from seven majority-Muslim countries last Friday when she heard that four students at her high school had been victims of a hate crime.The ninth graders, who are black, were walking to a bus stop when they encountered a white teenager who allegedly made a racist remark, attacked two of the students and threatened them with a knife. Police are investigating the incident.Ms. Hassan, who is Muslim, was heartbroken over the ban, and news of an attack on fellow students at Casco Bay High School in Portland, Me., made her feel even worse. But as a student representative on the local school board, she knew it was her responsibility “to not really break but to try to comfort other people.”On Monday, she helped organize a march to support the ninth graders. Over half the school’s nearly 400 students joined with teachers, the district superintendent and even the mayor to march from the school to the bus stop. Students chanted “When they go low, we go high” and, Ms. Hassan’s favorite: “No hate, no fear. Everyone is welcome here.”When they got to the bus stop, it was covered with signs with messages like, “We are here with you” and “You are loved.” Ms. Hassan doesn’t know who put them there, but her hunch is that it was someone associated with the school.She also believes the march was just one example of how communities will come together in the face of hate and policies that promote it. “The one thing that this administration cannot take away from us, the one single thing that it cannot touch, is love.”Here are some reports of hate crimes and harassment that have drawn public attention in recent days.• A man has been charged with hate crimes after allegedly attacking a Muslim employee at Kennedy International Airport last Wednesday night and shouting expletives about Islam and ISIS.• Two threatening notes were found last Thursday at a center in Aurora, Colo., that provides services for refugees. The notes both read, “We’re gonna blow up all of you refugees.” Police are investigating the incident.• On Jan. 25, a woman in Spokane, Wash., found a sign in her front yard reading “white lives matter more.” She believes it was a response to a Black Lives Matter sign in her yard. “It’s definitely disheartening,” she said, “because I just came back from spending five days in Washington, D.C., where I marched for immigrant and refugee rights, because I’m the daughter of a Mexican immigrant.”• On Jan. 23, graffiti including an anti-Trump message and an upside-down cross was found at the office of an anti-abortion group in St. Paul, Minn. .• Beginning last week, a man was seen wearing a swastika armband on the University of Florida campus. Last Thursday, two men allegedly attacked him and stole the armband. Last Friday, another man was seen on campus wearing a jacket with a large swastika on the back.• A man has been charged with a hate crime after allegedly threatening a woman on the basis of her religion and nationality at her workplace in Iowa City on Saturday. He also allegedly made sexual comments to her.If you have experienced, witnessed or read about a hate crime or incident of bias or harassment, you can use this form to send information about the incident to This Week in Hate and other partners in the Documenting Hate project. The form is not a report to law enforcement or any government agency. These resources may be helpful for people who have experienced harassment. If you witness harassment, here are some tips for responding. You can contact This Week in Hate at weekinhate@nytimes.com.
To the Editor:Several recent articles, including Paul Krugman’s Jan. 23 column, “Things Can Only Get Worse,” emphasize Donald Trump’s bleak characterization of America, but don’t point out the real reason for it.President Trump’s dystopian Inaugural Address describing “American carnage” was a set piece that began a predefined evolution of his rhetoric. This is part of the Art of the Scam: Denigrate and disparage the country now so that he, and he alone, can take credit for transforming it.Within two years he will be emphasizing how much things have improved; in four years we can safely predict that he will be speaking of the greatness that he has wrought. This will all be independent of any objective evidence of tangible improvements for Americans.Donald Trump has taken over a country that is already great. As this inevitable morphing of rhetoric takes place, we need to hold him and the Republicans accountable, not be deluded by words.DAVID ROWLEYChicago
